At that time highway engineers traveled rough and dirty roads to accomplish their duties . 
Using privately-owned vehicles was a personal hardship for such employees , and the matter of providing state transportation was felt perfectly justifiable . 
Once the principle was established , the increase in state-owned vehicles came rapidly . 
And reasons other than employee need contributed to the growth . 
Table 1 immediately below shows the rate of growth of vehicles and employees . 
This rate of increase does not signify anything in itself . 
It does not indicate loose management , ineffective controls or poor policy . 
But it does show that automobiles have increased steadily over the years and in almost the same proportion to the increase of state employees . 
In the past twenty years the ratio of state-owned automobiles per state employees has varied from 1 to 22 then to 1 to 23 now . 
Whether there were too few automobiles in 1940 or too many now is problematical . 
The fact is simply that state-owned vehicles have remained in practically the same proportion as employees to use them . 
History and operation of the motor pool . 
While the origin of state-owned automobiles may be obscured , subsequent developments concerning the assignment , use , and management of state automobiles can be related more clearly . 
Prior to 1942 , automobiles were the individual responsibility of the agency to which assigned . 
This responsibility included all phases of management . 
It embraced determining when to purchase and when to trade vehicles , who was to drive , when and where repairs were to be made , where gasoline and automobile services were to be obtained and other allied matters . 
In 1942 , however , the nation was at war . 
Gasoline and automobile tires were rationed commodities . 
The state was confronted with transportation problems similar to those of the individual . 
It met these problems by the creation of the state automobile maintenance unit ( more popularly called the motor pool ) , a centralized operation for the maintenance and control of all state transportation . 
The motor pool then , as now , had headquarter facilities in Providence and other garages located throughout the state . 
It was organizationally the responsibility of the Department of Public Works and was financed on a rotary fund basis with each agency of government contributing to the pool's operation . 
In 1951 the pool's operation was transferred to the newly-created Department of Administration , an agency established as the central staff and auxiliary department of the state government . 
The management of state-owned vehicles since that time has been described in a recent report in the following manner : `` Under this new management considerable progress appears to have been made . 
The agencies of government are now billed for the actual cost of services provided to each passenger car rather than the prior uniform charge for all cars . 
Whereas the maintenance rotary fund had in the past sustained losses considerably beyond expectations , the introduction of the cost-billing system plus other control refinements has resulted in keeping the fund on a proper working basis . 
One indication of the merits of the new management is found in the fact that during the period 1951-1956 , while total annual mileage put on the vehicles increased 35% , the total maintenance cost increased only 11% . 
`` In order to further refine the management of passenger vehicles , on July 1 , 1958 , the actual title to every vehicle was transferred , by Executive Order , to the Division of Methods , Research and Office Services . 
The objective behind this action was to place in one agency the responsibility for the management , assignment , and replacement of all vehicles . 
( Note : So far as State Police cars are concerned , only their replacement is under this division ) . 
This tied in closely with the current attempt to upgrade state-owned cars to the extent that vehicles are not retained beyond the point where maintenance costs ( in light of depreciation ) become excessive . 
Moreover , it allows the present management to reassign vehicles so that mileage will be more uniformly distributed throughout the fleet ; ; for example , if one driver puts on 22,000 miles per year and another driver 8,000 miles per year , their cars will be switched so that both cars will have 30,000 miles after two years , rather than 44,000 miles ( and related higher maintenance costs ) and 16,000 miles respectively '' . 
The motor pool is a completely centralized and mechanized operation . 
It handles all types of vehicle maintenance , but concentrates more on `` service station activities '' than on extensive vehicle repairs . 
It contracts with outside repair garages for much of the latter work . 
Where the pool excels is in its compilation of maintenance and cost-data studies and analyses . 
Pool records reveal in detail the cost per mile and miles per gallon of each vehicle , the miles traveled in one year or three years , the periods when vehicle costs become excessive , and when cars should be traded for sound economies . 
From this , motor pool personnel develop other meaningful and related data . 
In 1959-60 , vehicles averaged an operating cost of $.027 per mile . 
Based on this figure and considering depreciation costs of vehicles , pool personnel have determined that travel in excess of 10,000 miles annually is more economical by state car than by payment of allowances for use of personally-owned vehicles . 
They estimate further that with sufficient experience and when cost-data of compact cars is compiled , the break-even point may be reduced to 7,500 miles of travel per year . 
Table 2 shows operating cost data of state vehicles selected at random . 
One matter of concern to the complete effectiveness of pool operations is the lack of adequate central garage facilities . 
Present pool quarters at two locations in Providence are crowded , antiquated and , in general , make for inefficient operation in terms of dispersement of personnel and duplication of such operational needs as stock and repair equipment . 
Good facilities would be a decided help to pool operations and probably reduce vehicle costs even more . 
Purchasing practices . 
The purchase of state-owned vehicles is handled in the same manner as all other purchases of the state . 
Requests are made by the motor pool along with any necessary cooperation from the agencies to which assignments of cars will be made . 
Bids are evaluated by the Division of Purchases with the assistance of pool staff , and awards for the purchase of the automobiles are made to the lowest responsible bidders . 
Unit prices for state vehicles are invariably lower than to the general public . 
The reasons are obvious : ( 1 ) the state is buying in quantity , and ( 2 ) it has no federal excise or state sales tax to pay . 
Until 1958 the state was also entitled to a special type of manufacturers' discount through the dealers . 
In that ownership of all vehicles rests with the state motor pool , cars are paid for with funds appropriated to the agencies but transferred to the rotary fund mentioned earlier . 
This is a normal governmental procedure which reflects more accurately cost-accounting principles . 
The assignment and use of vehicles after purchase is another matter to be covered in detail later . 
Vehicle purchase , assignment , and use policies Probably the most important of all matters for review are the broad administrative policies governing the purchase , assignment , use , and management of state vehicles . 
The legislature's role in policy determination in this area for years has been confined almost solely to the amount of funds appropriated annually for the purchase and operation of vehicles . 
The more meaningful policies have been left to the judgment of the chief administrative officer of the state -- the Director of Administration . 
The Rhode Island property tax There was a time some years ago when local taxation by the cities and towns was sufficient to support their own operations and a part of the cost of the state government as well . 
For many years a state tax on cities and towns was paid by the several municipalities to the state from the proceeds of the general property tax . 
This tax was discontinued in 1936 . 
Since that time the demands of the citizens for new and expanded services have placed financial burdens on the state which could not have been foreseen in earlier years . 
At the same time there has been an upgrading and expansion of municipal services as well . 
Thus , there has come into being a situation in which the state must raise all of its own revenues and , in addition , must give assistance to its local governments . 
This financial assistance from the state has become necessary because the local governments themselves found the property tax , or at least at the rates then existing , insufficient for their requirements . 
Consequently there have developed several forms of grants-in-aid and shared taxes , as well as the unrestricted grant to local governments for general purposes whose adoption accompanied the introduction of a sales tax at the state level . 
Notwithstanding state aid , the local governments are continuing to seek additional revenue of their own by strengthening the property tax . 
This is being done both by the revaluation of real property and by seeking out forms of personal property hitherto neglected or ignored . 
Taxation of tangible movable property in Rhode Island has been generally of a `` hands off '' nature due possibly to several reasons : ( 1 ) local assessors , in the main , are not well paid and have inadequate office staffs , ( 2 ) the numerous categories of this component of personal property make locating extremely difficult , and ( 3 ) the inexperience of the majority of assessors in evaluating this type of property . 
Problems of taxing personal property . 
Among the many problems in the taxing of personal property , and of movable tangible property in particular , two are significant : ( 1 ) situs , ( 2 ) fair and equitable assessment of value . 
These problems are not local to Rhode Island , but are recognized as common to all states . 
Situs of property . 
Although the laws of the various states , in general , specify the situs of property , i.e. , residence or domicile of the owner , or location of the property , the exceptions regarding boats , airplanes , mobile homes , etc. , seem to add to the uncertainty of the proper origination point for assessment . 
Rhode Island law specifies that all real estate is taxable in the town in which it is situated . 
It also provides for the taxation of all personal property , belonging to inhabitants of the state , both tangible and intangible , and the tangible personal property of non-residents in this state . 
In defining personal property , it specifically mentions `` all ships or vessels , at home or abroad '' . 
Intangible property is taxable wherever the owner has a place of abode the greater portion of the year . 
Although a similar situs for tangible property is mentioned in the statute , this is cancelled out by the provision that definite kinds of property `` and all other tangible property '' situated or being in any town is taxable where the property is situated . 
This would seem to fix the tax situs of all movable personal property at its location on December 31 . 
Both boats and aircraft would fall within this category , as well as motor vehicles . 
The location of the latter now is determined for tax purposes at the time of registration , and it is now accepted practice to consider a motor vehicle as being situated where it is garaged . 
Obviously , it would be impossible to determine where every vehicle might be on the 31st day of December . 
In view of the acceptance accorded the status of motor vehicles for tax purposes , in the absence of any specific provision it would seem entirely consistent to apply the same interpretation to boats or aircraft . 
A recent example of this problem is the flying of six airplanes , on December 31 , 1960 , from the Newport Airpark in Middletown , to the North Central Airport in Smithfield . 
This situation resulted in both towns claiming the tax , and probably justifiably . 
Middletown bases its claim on the general provision of the law that `` all rateable property , both tangible and intangible , shall be taxed to the owner thereof in the town in which such owner shall have had his actual place of abode for the larger portion of the twelve ( 12 ) months next preceding the first day of April in each year '' . 
The Smithfield tax assessor , in turn , claims the tax under the provision of law `` and all other tangible personal property situated or being in any town , in or upon any place of storage shall be taxed to such person in the town where said property is situated '' . 
Assessment of value . 
This problem of fair and equitable assessment of value is a difficult one to solve in that the determination of fair valuation is dependent on local assessors , who in general are non-professional and part-time personnel taking an individualistic approach to the problem . 
This accounts for the wide variance in assessment practices of movable tangible property in the various municipalities in Rhode Island . 
This condition will undoubtedly continue until such time as a state uniform system of evaluation is established , or through mutual agreement of the local assessing officials for a method of standard assessment practice to be adopted . 
The Rhode Island Public Expenditure Council in its publication once commented : `` The most realistic way of facing up to this problem would be to have the State take over full responsibility for assessing all taxable property . 
An adequately staffed and equipped State assessing office could apply uniform methods and standards which would go far toward producing equitable assessments on all properties throughout the State . 
A single statewide assessing unit would eliminate the differences and complications that are inherent in a system of 39 different and independent assessing units '' . 
The Institute of Public Administration , in its report to the State Fiscal Study Commission in 1959 , recommended `` consolidating and centralizing all aspects of property tax administration in a single state agency professionally organized and equipped for the job '' . 
The resulting setup , it was declared , `` would be similar to that which is in successful operation in a number of metropolitan counties as large or larger than Rhode Island '' . 
Practices in Rhode Island . 
To determine the practice and attitude of municipal governments concerning tangible movable property , a questionnaire was sent to all local government assessors or boards of assessors in Rhode Island . 
The replies from each individual town are not given in detail because the questions asked the personal opinion of the several assessors and are not necessarily the established policy of the town in each case . 
There are legitimate reasons for differences of opinion among the assessors as a whole and among the public officials in each town . 
These opinions of the assessors are of significance in indicating what their thinking seems to be at the present time . 
In reply to a question of whether they now tax boats , airplanes and other movable property excluding automobiles , nineteen said that they did and twenty that they did not . 
The wording of the question was quite general and may have been subject to different interpretations . 
One assessor checked boats only , another trailers and tractors , one mentioned house trailers , and two others referred to trailers without specifying the type . 
In two cases , airplanes only were indicated . 
It is difficult to tabulate exactly what was meant in each individual situation , but the conclusion may be drawn that 21 towns do not assess movable personal property , and of the remainder only certain types are valued for tax purposes . 
Boats were indicated specifically by only one of the five towns known to tax boats . 
It would seem , then , that movable property and equipment is not taxed as a whole but that certain types are taxed in towns where this is bound to be expedient for that particular kind of personal property . 
So few answered the question relating to their efforts to assess movable property that the results are inconclusive . 
Only four towns indicated that they made any more than a normal effort to list property of this kind . 
Of greater interest is a question as to whether movable property was assessed according to its location or ownership . 
Fifteen stated that it was according to location , four by residence of the owner , and nineteen did not answer . 
Twenty-seven assessors stated that they were in favor of improved means for assessing movable personal property , and only five were opposed . 
Seven others expressed no opinion . 
On this point there was fairly general agreement that assessors would like to do more than they are doing now . 
It is not clear , however , whether they are thinking of all movable property or only of boats , trailers , aircraft or certain other types of personal property whose assessment would be advantageous to their particular towns . 
Another question that was asked of the assessors was whether they favored the assessment of movable property at its location or at the residence of the owner . 
Eighteen voted for assessment by the town in which it is located and eleven preferred assessment by the town in which the owner resides . 
Ten others made no reply . 
Of those who have an opinion , it seems that assessment by location is preferred . 
There was one vote for location being the place where the property is situated for the greater portion of the twelve months preceding the assessment date . 
To summarize , it may be said that there is no one prevailing practice in Rhode Island with respect to the taxation of movable property , that assessors would like to see an improvement , and of those who have an opinion , that assessment by the town of location is preferred on the basis of their present knowledge . 
The need for greater knowledge is evident from their replies . 
Boats as personal property taxing of boats . 
Interest has been shown for a number of years by local assessors in the possibility of taxing boats . 
Assessors in Rhode Island are charged not only with placing a valuation upon real and personal property , but they also have the responsibility to raise by a tax `` a sum not less than nor more than '' a specified amount as ordered by a city council or financial town meeting . 
It has been obvious to the assessors , particularly those in shore communities , that boats comprise the largest category of tangible personal property which they have been unable to reach . 
Through their professional organization , the Rhode Island Tax Officials Association the question of taxing boats long has been debated and discussed . 
No satisfactory solution has been found , but this is due more to the difficulties inherent in the problem than to a lack of interest or diligence on the part of the assessors . 
It has been estimated that the value of boats in Rhode Island waters is something in excess of fifty million dollars , excluding commercial boats . 
It is obvious that this is a potential and lucrative source of revenue for the assessors of those towns where a substantial amount of such property would be subject to taxation . 
It is known that at least five towns ( Barrington , Bristol , Narragansett , Newport and Westerly ) place some value on some boats for tax purposes . 
However , few are taxed , and the owners and location of most boats are unknown to the assessors on the date of assessment of town valuations . 
No one really knows how many boats there actually are or what their aggregate value may be . 
Slightly more than 5,000 boats were registered with the Coast Guard prior to the recent passage of the state boating law . 
Only a few more than 10,000 boats had been registered with the Division of Harbors and Rivers at the end of the 1960 boating season , but many had been taken out of the water early when the threat of a hurricane brought the season to an early close . 
The assessors' association , meeting at Narragansett in September 1960 , devoted its session to a discussion of the boat problem . 
Local industry's investment in Rhode Island was the big story in 1960's industrial development effort . 
Fifty-two companies started or committed themselves to new plant construction , totaling 1,418,000 square feet and representing an investment of $11,900,000 ; ; a new post-World War 2 , record . 
With minor exceptions , this expansion was instituted either by firms based in Rhode Island or out-of-state manufacturers already operating here . 
What made these new location figures particularly impressive was the fact that although 1960 was a year of mild business recession throughout the nation , Rhode Island scored marked progress in new industry , new plants , and new jobs . 
Of the major expansions in 1960 , three were financed under the R. I. Industrial Building Authority's 100% guaranteed mortgage plan : Collyer Wire , Leesona Corporation , and American Tube & Controls . 
Leading firms that arranged their own financing included Speidel Corporation , Cornell-Dubilier , Photek , Inc. Division of Textron , Narragansett Gray Iron Foundry , W. R. Cobb Company , and Mays Manufacturing Company . 
Expansion and relocation of industry in Rhode Island is the direct responsibility of the Development Council's Industrial Division , and the figures quoted above indicate a successful year's operation . 
Industrial Division personnel worked with 54 out-of-state and 97 Rhode Island concerns during 1960 , many of whom are still interested in a Rhode Island location . 
They are conscious of this state's new feeling of optimism and assurance and are definitely impressed by the number of new plants and construction projects in Rhode Island . 
Aids to small business Although much of the Industrial Division's promotional effort is devoted to securing new locations and expansions by major industries , small business is also afforded considerable attention . 
Our Office of Foreign and Domestic Commerce carries on a vigorous program , directly aimed at solving and expediting the problems of manufacturers in the lower employment categories . 
A primary function is the operation of a Government Bid Center , which receives bids daily from the Federal Government's principal purchasing agencies . 
Assistance is rendered to interested Rhode Island businessmen concerning interpretation of bid invitations , where to obtain specifications , and follow-ups concerning qualification . 
During the past year , 10,517 government bid invitations were received and 4,427 procurement leads were mailed to Rhode Island manufacturers . 
In addition , the Office's domestic trade program provided consultant services to those seeking information on establishment of new businesses ; ; how and where to apply for financial assistance ; ; details on marketing ; ; information concerning patents , copyrights and trade marks , availability of technical reports , and other subjects of interest to small business . 
The Office of Foreign and Domestic Commerce is also active in the field of international trade , assisting Rhode Island firms in developing and enlarging markets abroad . 
This office cooperates with the U. S. Department of Commerce in giving statewide coverage to services which include : statistics on markets abroad ; ; locating foreign agents , buyers , distributors , etc. ; ; information on foreign and domestic import duties and regulations , licensing , investments , and establishing of branch representatives or plants abroad , and documentary requirements concerning export shipments and arrangements for payment . 
During the year 1960 , this office supplied 954 visitors with information related to foreign and domestic commerce , and made 73 field visits . 
Advertising program Our media advertising continued , during 1960 , its previous effective program that stressed such specifics as 100% financing , plant availabilities , and location advantages . 
We also continued to run a series of ads featuring endorsement of Rhode Island by industrialists who had recently established new plants here . 
To reach a still greater audience of location-minded manufacturers , our industrial advertising budget for the fiscal year was increased from $32,000 to $40,000 , and the Industrial Building Authority's financial participation was upped from $17,000 to $20,000 . 
Newspaper advertising was mainly concentrated in the New York Times and the Wall Street Journal ( Eastern and Midwestern editions ) which averaged two prominent ads per month , and to a lesser degree the New York Herald Tribune and , for the west coast , the Los Angeles Times and the Wall Street Journal ( Pacific Coast edition ) . 
In addition to the regular schedule , advertisements were run for maximum impact in special editions of the New York Times , Boston Herald , American Banker , Electronic News and , for local promotion , the Providence Sunday Journal . 
Magazine advertising included Management Methods , The New Englander , U. S. Investor , and Plant Location . 
The direct mail campaign consisted of 3 intra-state mailings of 1680 letters each and 6 out-of-state directed to electronics , plastics , pharmaceutical , and business machine manufacturers , and to publishers . 
These totaled 6,768 pieces of correspondence . 
The 1960 advertising campaign brought a total of 239 inquiries ; ; 164 from media and 75 from direct mail . 
Two hundred and nineteen were received from 35 of our 50 United States and 11 came from foreign countries . 
New York led in the number of inquiries , followed by California , New Jersey , Massachusetts , and Pennsylvania . 
Among foreign countries responding were Germany , Canada , Brazil and India . 
Industrial promotion An important operation in soliciting industrial locations involves what we term `` Missionary calls '' by one of this Division's industrial promotion specialists . 
These consist of visits , without previous announcement , on top officials of manufacturing concerns located in highly industrialized areas . 
More than 25 carefully selected cities were visited , including New York , Brooklyn , Long Island City , Newark , Elizabeth , Stamford , Waterbury , New Haven , Bridgeport , Boston , Cambridge , Worcester , and Waltham . 
Out of a total of 603 calls , 452 contacts were established with top executive personnel . 
We received 76 out-of-state visitors interested in investigating Rhode Island's industrial advantages , and Industrial Division personnel made 55 out-of-state follow-up visits . 
Industrial conferences During 1960 , two important conferences were organized by the Development Council's Industrial Division . 
In June , the Office of Foreign and Domestic Commerce -- in conjunction with local trade associations , chambers of commerce , and bank officials -- sponsored a World Trade Conference at the Sheraton-Biltmore Hotel . 
Its purpose was to find ways of offsetting the United States' declining balance of trade for 1958 and 1959 . 
Approximately 100 representatives of business attended this conclave and the R. I. Export Conference Committee later voted to continue the activity as an annual event . 
On October 8th of last year , the Industrial Division sponsored the Governor's Conference on Industrial Development at the former Henry Barnard School . 
A comprehensive program devoted to the various phases of the development effort attracted 143 interested individuals . 
Morning sessions included addresses by Ward Miller , Jr. of the U. S. Dept. of Commerce . 
Richard Preston , executive director of the New Hampshire State Planning and Development Commission , and Edwin C. Kepler of General Electric Company . 
Workshop sessions in the afternoon featured development executives from Pennsylvania , Connecticut and Maine , and rounded out a rewarding program . 
In connection with this conference , a 64-page supplement was published in the October 2nd edition of The Providence Sunday Journal . 
Devoted to the improvement in business climate and increase in industrial construction in Rhode Island , it has proved a valuable mailing piece for this Division . 
More than 2000 copies have been sent out to prospective clients . 
Mailings and publications Other special mailings by the Industrial Division included copies of speeches delivered at the Governor's Conference , letters and brochures to conferees at Med-Chemical Symposium at University of Rhode Island and letters and reprints of industrial advertisements to such organizations as Society of Industrial Realtors . 
1184 copies of the R. I. Directory Of Manufacturers were distributed : 643 in-state and 541 out-of-state . 
The Industrial Division published , in 1960 , a new , attractive industrial brochure , `` Rhode Island -- Right For Industry '' , and prepared copy for a new edition of the Directory Of Manufacturers ( to be printed shortly ) , and for a new space catalogue . 
Additional promotional activities included organizing the dedication program for Operation Turnkey , the new automated post office , and a conference with representatives of Brown University , Providence College , and University of Rhode Island , and eight electronics concerns regarding the inauguration of a training program for electronics personnel . 
Planning division Stated in its simplest terms , the main job of the Planning Division is to plan for the future of the State of Rhode Island . 
The activities of the Planning Division are defined in considerable detail in the enabling act of the Development Council , which assigns to the agency both broad responsibilities and specific duties in the field of planning . 
Two years ago , the Institute of Public Administration issued an extremely comprehensive report entitled `` State-Local Relations In Metropolitan Rhode Island . 
As the result of an exhaustive review of the recommendations contained in this report , plus an analysis of our own enabling act , the Planning Division developed a number of basic planning objectives which caused a reorientation of its work program . 
These objectives are stated here because of their importance in understanding the current activities of the Planning Division . 
( 1 ) First priority will be given to the preparation of a meaningful state guide plan to serve as a background for all other planning activities in the state . 
( 2 ) Recognizing the truth of the statement by the Institute of Public Administration that `` Metropolian Planning ( in Rhode Island ) means , or should mean , state planning '' , the state guide plan will take into account the metropolitan nature of many of Rhode Island's problems . 
( 3 ) It will continue to be an objective of this division to encourage the acceptance of planning as a proper and continuing responsibility of local government . 
To this end , the community assistance program of the planning division will continue to be operated as a staff function to make available , on a shared cost basis , technical planning assistance to those communities in the state unable to maintain their own planning staff . 
( 4 ) The planning division will take the initiative in encouraging planning cooperation at all levels of government ; ; among the operating departments of the state ; ; between the cities and towns of the state ; ; and on a regional basis between the six New England states . 
( 5 ) On the basis that all citizens of the state are entitled to benefit equally in the development of its resources , plans for the provision of essential services ( such as water ) will be based on need regardless of arbitrary political boundaries , within the framework of the state plan . 
( 6 ) The state development budget will reflect the capital needs of all the state agencies and the priority of the projects in the budget will be based on the state plan . 
( 7 ) In preparing the state guide plan , particular attention will be given means of strengthening the economy of the state through the development of industry and recreation . 
Functionally the planning division carries out four activities : long-range state planning , current state planning , local planning assistance ; ; and the preparation of the state development budget . 
Long-range state planning The planning division has embarked on the most complete and comprehensive state planning program in the nation . 
The long-range aspects of this program are divided into four distinct phases : basic mapping , inventory , analysis and plan and policy formation . 
The work program , as it was originally proposed , was to take five years to complete . 
Recent events -- particularly the necessity of providing planning information for the statewide origin/destination study of the Department of Public Works -- indicate that this schedule will have to be accelerated . 
The basic mapping phase of the program has been completed and the inventory phase is scheduled for completion July 1 , 1961 . 
Basic mapping Since accurate base maps are necessary for any planning program , the first step taken by the planning division to implement the long-range state plan has been to prepare two series of base maps -- one at a scale of 1 inch to a mile , and the second a series of 26 sheets at a scale of 1 inch to 2000 feet , covering the entire state . 
With these maps completed , the inventory phase of the plan has been started . 
Inventory With the aid of matching federal funds available under Section 701 of the Housing Act of 1954 as amended , the planning division began a one year program July 1 , 1960 to complete the inventory phase of the state planning program . 
This phase consists of four items : urban land use , rural land use , physical features and public utility service areas . 
Since the validity of all subsequent planning depends on the accuracy of the basic inventory information , great care is being taken that the inventory is as complete as possible . 
The urban land use study carried out by the planning division staff has consisted of identifying and mapping all urban land uses which are of significance to statewide planning . 
The rural land use study is being carried out under contract by the University of Rhode Island and identifies all agricultural land uses in the state by type of use . 
The mapping of important physical features such as slopes and types of soil and the collection of all available information pertaining to public utility service areas are being conducted as staff projects and , like the other two inventory projects , are scheduled for completion July 1 , 1961 . 
Analysis The collection of information is meaningless unless it is understood and used for a definite purpose . 
Special districts in Rhode island . 
It is not within the scope of this report to elaborate in any great detail upon special districts in Rhode Island . 
However , a word should be mentioned in regard to them as independent units of government . 
There are forty-seven special district governments in Rhode Island ( excluding two regional school districts , four housing authorities , and the Kent County Water Authority ) . 
These forty-seven special purpose governments have the authority to levy taxes , to borrow money , own property , sue and be sued , and in general to exercise normal corporate powers . 
Unlike cities and towns , however , they do not have to submit any financial statements to the state Bureau of Audits . 
It is not an exaggeration to say that the state government has little or no fiscal control over these units of government . 
In addition to the collection of service charges , the special districts levy annual property taxes of approximately $450,000 . 
Fiscal years in other states comparative data . 
A review of practices in other states regarding fiscal uniformity is pertinent to this report . 
Included in the findings are : 1 . 
Forty-six states , including Rhode Island , end their fiscal year on June 30 . 
The other four states end on varying dates : Alabama ( Sept. 30 ) , New York ( March 31 ) , Pennsylvania ( May 31 ) , and Texas ( August 31 ) . 
2 . 
In sixteen states , the fiscal year ending of the cities ( June 30 ) is the same as that of the state : Alaska , Arizona , California , Delaware , Massachusetts , Montana , Nevada , New Mexico , North Carolina , North Dakota , Oklahoma , Oregon , Vermont , West Virginia , Wyoming , and Hawaii ) . 
3 . 
In eleven states , the fiscal year of the cities ends on December 31 , while the state fiscal year ends on June 30 ( Arkansas , Colorado , Indiana , Kansas , New Hampshire , New Jersey , Ohio , South Dakota , Utah , Washington , and Wisconsin ) . 
4 . 
In eight states whose fiscal years close on June 30 , a majority of their cities close their fiscal year on December 31 : : ( Georgia , Iowa , Kentucky , Maine , Maryland , Minnesota , Virginia , and South Carolina ) . 
5 . 
One state , Alabama , closes its fiscal year on September 30 , and all cities in the state , with one exception , also close fiscal years on September 30 . 
6 . 
Mississippi closes its fiscal year on June 30 , while all of its cities close their fiscal years on September 30 . 
7 . 
Pennsylvania closes its fiscal year on May 31 . 
All of its cities close their fiscal years on December 31 . 
The remaining twelve states have varying fiscal years for the state , city and local governments . 
However , only Illinois , Oregon , Louisiana and Rhode Island have a situation in which the sundry units of government vary widely in relation to fiscal uniformity . 
Fiscal uniformity : advantages and disadvantages advantages . 
An excellent summary of advantages concerning the uniform fiscal year and coordinated fiscal calendars was contained in a paper presented by a public finance authority recently . 
He listed among the values of fiscal uniformity : 1 . 
The uniform fiscal year requires compliance with common sense administration of local finances : adoption of the budget , or financial plan , in advance of spending . 
2 . 
The uniform fiscal year ensures conformance with another common sense rule , that of having cash in the bank before checks are drawn . 
It enables towns to make more economical purchases and to take advantage of cash discounts . 
3 . 
The uniform fiscal year promotes more careful budgeting and strengthens control over expenditures . 
By fixing the tax rate in advance of spending , upper limits are set on expenditures . 
4 . 
The uniform fiscal year brings the town's fiscal year into line with that of the schools , which expend the largest share of local disbursements . 
This greatly simplifies the town's bookkeeping and financial reporting . 
5 . 
The uniform fiscal year eliminates interest charges on money borrowed in the form of tax anticipation notes . 
Furthermore , tax collections not immediately needed for current expenditures may be invested in short-term treasury notes , augmenting the town's miscellaneous revenues and reducing the tax levy . 
6 . 
The uniform fiscal year facilitates inter-town comparison of revenues and expenditures . 
When towns have the same fiscal year it is relatively easy to make meaningful comparisons ; ; and as the cost of local government increases , the demand for such comparison also increases . 
Towns having different fiscal years are difficult to compare . 
Of all advantages , probably none is more important than the elimination of tax anticipation notes . 
Borrowing in anticipation of current taxes and other revenues is a routine procedure of the majority of municipalities at all times . 
It may be by bank loans , sale of notes or warrants , or by the somewhat casual method of issuance and registration of warrants . 
In any event it is a form of borrowing which could be and should be rendered unnecessary . 
Its elimination would result in the saving of interest costs , heavy when short-term money rates are high , and in freedom from dependence on credit which is not always available when needed most . 
This type of borrowing can be reduced to a minimum if quarterly installment payment of taxes is instituted and the first payment placed near the opening of the fiscal year . 
Any approach toward such a system looks toward saving and security . 
It should be noted that there are other and equally important reasons for establishing meaningful intergovernmental reporting bases on a uniform fiscal year . 
Both the federal and state governments commence their fiscal years on July 1 . 
Both units of government contribute increasingly large sums of money to the several local governments in this state as indicated below : It has been said that when local government revenues were mostly produced locally from the property tax , the lack of a uniform fiscal year was no great handicap ; ; but with the growth of state and federal fiscal aid , the emphasis on equalization , and the state-local sharing of responsibility for certain important functions , this is no longer true . 
The haphazard fiscal year calendar is an obstacle to the planning of clear and efficient state-local revenue and expenditure relationships . 
Disadvantages . 
Although there are many sound reasons for adopting uniform and coordinated fiscal years in Rhode Island , there are also certain difficulties encountered . 
These involve more the mechanics employed in adjusting to fiscal uniformity than they do actual disadvantages to the principle . 
One problem is a matter of shifting dates ; ; the other , is how to finance the transition . 
Little can be done about the changing of dates . 
This is an inherent part of adjusting fiscal calendars . 
It usually means a confused and disgruntled tax-paying public for a period of time . 
But cooperation and understanding between local officials and the citizenry help lessen this problem . 
The other problem is the matter of financing the transition period in the several cities and towns . 
This will be covered more fully later . 
It should be kept in mind that the ease or difficulty with which a town or city can convert to the proposed plan is directly dependent upon the financial condition of that town or city . 
Fortunately , there are no cities or towns in the state , with one or two possible exceptions that are in too difficult a position to finance the proposed change . 
Sacrifice will have to be made in some cases , but it is to the municipality's advantage to finance the change-over for a short period of time rather than pay interest on tax anticipation notes indefinitely . 
Adjusting the fiscal calendars The advantages of a uniform fiscal year and well synchronized fiscal and tax collection calendars are sufficiently great for Rhode Island municipalities to exert effort to secure them . 
The type of program desired can be determined by the nature and extent of the adjustments needed . 
Two features are immediately evident . 
First , the present situation is too varied to be systematized by any single formula . 
Second , the shift to a uniform July 1 to June 30 fiscal year will , of itself , improve the tax collection calendars of the great majority of cities and towns . 
There are at least two problems to consider : one is a matter of adjusting the fiscal calendar ; ; the other is how to finance the adjustments when necessary . 
The latter matter is considered in detail in a later section . 
Twelve cities and towns in Rhode Island presently indicate some plans to establish a uniform and/or coordinated fiscal tax year calendar . 
Plans vary from the `` talking stage '' to establishing special committees to accomplish this end . 
What is important here is that many of the cities and towns recognize the need for improved fiscal practices and are taking the initiative to obtain them . 
An analysis of the fiscal tax collection year calendars throughout the state indicates that transition may not be as painful as is commonly thought . 
However , it must be stressed that much depends upon the financial condition of the individual cities and towns involved . 
The adjustments needed to establish a uniform and coordinated fiscal tax collection year calendar throughout Rhode Island , based on a July 1 to June 30 year , are shown below . 
No adjustment needed . 
Six cities and towns are presently on a July 1 to June 30 fiscal year and have coordinated their tax collection year with it . 
No change is required for these towns . 
These municipalities include : Barrington , Lincoln , Middletown , Newport , North Kingstown , and South Kingstown . 
Adjustment of fiscal year . 
One town and one city , Coventry and East Providence , require an adjustment of their fiscal year only . 
This change will automatically adjust their tax collection year calendar so as to make all tax installments due and payable in the fiscal year collectible within that year . 
Adjustment of tax collection year . 
Six cities and towns are now on a July 1 to June 30 fiscal year and will need only to adjust their tax collection year calendar to establish uniformity . 
These cities and towns include Bristol , Glocester , Pawtucket , Cumberland , Central Falls , and Woonsocket . 
Simultaneous adjustments . 
Two cities to be considered , Providence and Cranston , are an enigma . 
Both have excellent integration of their fiscal tax collection year calendars . 
However , neither of these two cities is on the desired July 1 to June 30 fiscal year . 
The adjustment to a uniform and coordinated fiscal period could be accomplished relatively easily for them . 
In that both cities end their fiscal years on September 30 , they could levy taxes for an interim period of nine months , commencing with September 30 and ending with June 30 . 
These three installment dates would be : October 26 , January 26 , and April 25 ( Providence ) and November 15 , February 16 and May 15 ( Cranston ) . 
Both would start their new fiscal year on July 1 . 
Their tax collection calendar could then be : July 25 , October 26 , January 26 , and April 25 , ( Providence ) ; ; and August 15 , November 15 , February 17 , and May 15 , ( Cranston ) . 
Under this plan both Cranston and Providence would be on the uniform fiscal year but would still be using the same installment periods . 
Varying adjustments . 
The remaining twenty-three towns have fiscal years which end prior to June 30 . 
All of these towns will require adjustments of both their fiscal and tax collection years . 
Assuming an adjustment to the July 1 to June 30 fiscal year , the required adjustment of the tax collection years and the towns involved are shown in Table 3 . 
Methods of financing adjustments Aside from the matter of adjusting the fiscal and tax calendars , there is the problem of financing the adjustment when this is necessary . 
It should be emphasized strongly that adjustments in fiscal dates or adoption of interim budgets do not necessarily mean financing over and above normal governmental requirements . 
In many communities there is simply no financial problem ; ; it is only a matter of adjusting accounting methods , careful fiscal planning and management , or some like combination of techniques . 
In other municipalities the difficulties in overcoming the financial burden have been sufficiently great to dishearten proponents of fiscal year changes . 
Fortunately , such cases in Rhode Island are more the exception than the rule . 
As shown earlier in Table 1 , the several cities and towns use widely varied fiscal and tax collection calendars . 
In addition , no two Rhode Island communities are identical in relation to their over-all financial condition . 
These factors practically insure that no single financing formula is feasible ; ; each situation must be studied and a plan developed that takes into consideration such factors as the effect of the existing and prospective tax calendars , the financial condition of the treasuries , and the length of the transition interval . 
Suitable plans range from those that are very easy to develop to those that are difficult to formulate and require borrowing ranging from short-term serial notes to long-term bonds . 
The financial problem , where it exists , usually stems from the adoption of a budget for the transitional or adjustment period . 
For those communities which have financial difficulties in effecting adjustments , there are a number of alternatives any one of which alone , or in combination with others , would minimize if not even eliminate the problem . 
Rhode Island Heritage Week proclamation by John A. Notte , Jr. , governor The theme of Rhode Island Heritage Week for 1961 will be `` Independence and Union '' . 
It commemorates the 185th anniversary of Rhode Island's Independence when , upon May 4 , 1776 , the General Assembly , by its action , established the first free republic in the New World . 
As this year marks the centennial of the beginning of the Civil War , this fact is being commemorated with several exhibits throughout the State , but most of all paying tribute to the first Rhode Island Volunteers who rushed to the defense of the City of Washington , putting at the disposal of President Lincoln the only fully equipped and best trained regiment at this time . 
On April 30 , ceremonies commemorating the departure of these volunteers will take place at 1:00 P.M. at the Dexter Training Grounds in Providence . 
The Independence Day celebration will be properly observed with a big military and civic parade from West Warwick to the Greene Homestead in Anthony ; ; and now , therefore , do I , John A. Notte , Jr. , governor of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations , proclaim the week of april 29th to may 7th , 1961 , as Rhode Island Heritage Week , advising our citizens that throughout this week many historic houses and beautiful gardens will be open to visitors as well as industrial plants , craft shops , museums and libraries and I earnestly urge all to take advantage of these opportunities to see as many of these places as they can during this outstanding week . 
In testimony whereof , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the State to be affixed this 21st day of April , in the year of Our Lord , one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one and on Independence , the one hundred and eighty-fifth . 
Governor Armed Forces Day Proclamation by John A. Notte , Jr. , Governor The year 1961 marks the fourteenth anniversary of the unification of our Armed Forces under the National Security Act of 1947 . 
National defense , like the continuing search for peace with freedom and justice for all , is `` everybody's business '' . 
Our investment in this effort , the greatest in our Nation's history , reflects our determination to ensure the peace and the future of freedom . 
It is a sound investment . 
As the President has said , `` only when our arms are sufficient beyond doubt can we be certain that they will never be employed '' . 
Armed Forces Day is the annual report on this investment , a public presentation designed to give our own people , and the people of other lands who stand with us for peace with freedom and justice , the best possible opportunity to see and understand what we have and why we have it . 
It is the purpose of Armed Forces Day to give Americans an opportunity to honor men of the Armed Forces , those who have made the supreme sacrifice , those who remain to preserve our security . 
Freedom depends upon them ; ; now , therefore , do I , John A. Notte , Jr. , governor of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations , proclaim Saturday , May 20th , 1961 , as Armed Forces Day , reminding our citizens that we should rededicate ourselves to our Nation , respecting the uniforms as the guardians of our precious liberty . 
In testimony whereof , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the State to be affixed this 17th day of May , in the year of Our Lord , one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one , and of Independence , the one hundred and eighty-sixth . 
Governor National Maritime Day proclamation by John A. Notte , Jr. , Governor The President of the United States , pursuant to a Joint Resolution of Congress , has issued a proclamation each year since 1933 declaring May 22nd to be National Maritime Day . 
This date in 1819 marked the sailing of the S. S. `` Savannah '' from Savannah , Georgia , for Liverpool . 
This voyage was the first successful crossing of the Atlantic under steam propulsion . 
The day is now appropriately set aside to honor the American men and women who have contributed to the success of our merchant marine fleet in peace and war . 
The Merchant Marine is the `` Fourth Arm of Defense '' , for a strong and effective American Merchant Marine is essential to the economy and security of our Nation . 
Through trade and travel across the seas the American Merchant Marine is carrying out its historic mission of linking the United States of America with friendly nations across the seas ; ; and now , therefore , do I , John A. Notte , Jr. , Governor of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations , proclaim Monday , May 22nd , 1961 , as National Maritime Day , reminding our citizens that American Merchant ships and American seamen are ready at all times to serve our Nation in the cause of freedom and justice . 
In testimony whereof , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the State to be affixed this 20th day of April , in the year of Our Lord , one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one , and of Independence , the one hundred and eighty-fifth . 
Governor Miss Rhode Island Pageant Week proclamation by John A. Notte , Jr. , Governor The Miss Rhode Island Pageant is sponsored by the Rhode Island Junior Chamber of Commerce as a part of the nation-wide search for the typical American girl -- a Miss America from Rhode Island . 
This is an official preliminary contest of the Miss America Pageant held each September in Atlantic City . 
The ideal girl -- possessed of talent , poise , intelligence , personality and beauty of face and figure -- is chosen each year to represent Rhode Island . 
Many hours are given free by the Jaycees to make this and all local pageants outstanding events . 
Proceeds realized from these pageants are used by the Jaycees to help support their various youth , health , welfare and community betterment activities throughout the state . 
Miss Sally May Saabye , ( Miss Rhode Island 1960 ) says that within a short time -- on June 17th -- her reign will come to an end . 
She hopes that all will support the contestants from our own community by attending our Pageants and the State Pageant June 17 ; ; and now , therefore , do I , John A. Notte , Jr. , Governor of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations , proclaim the week of June 11th to 17th , 1961 , as Miss Rhode Island Pageant Week , with deep appreciation to the Jaycees , local and statewide , for the presentation of their beautiful Pageants and the encouragement of all Rhode Island girls to participate . 
In testimony whereof , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the State to be affixed this 11th day of June , in the year of Our Lord , one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one , and of Independence , the one hundred and eighty-sixth . 
Governor United Nations Day proclamation by John A. Notte , Jr. , governor For the purpose of maintaining international peace and promoting the advancement of all people , the United States of America joined in founding the United Nations . 
The United Nations Charter sets forth standards which , if adhered to , will promote peace and justice throughout the world . 
It is extremely important for each American to realize that the theme `` The United Nations Is Your Business '' applies to him personally . 
The world desperately needs the United Nations . 
United Nations Day is the birthday of the United Nations , mankind's noblest attempt to establish lasting peace with justice ; ; and now , therefore , do I , John A. Notte , Jr. , governor of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations , proclaim Tuesday , October 24th , 1961 , as United Nations day , calling upon all our citizens to engage in appropriate observances , demonstrating faith in the United Nations and thereby contributing to a better understanding of the aims of the United Nations throughout the land . 
In testimony whereof , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the State to be affixed this 5th day of July , in the year of Our Lord , one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one , and of Independence , the one hundred and eighty-sixth . 
Governor The State Ballet of Rhode Island Week proclamation by John A. Notte , Jr. , Governor The ballet originated in Italy about 1450 . 
At that time it was a series of sophisticated social dances whose steps were often combined with other steps devised by the choreographer . 
Ballet flowered in Italy during the next hundred years , and about 1550 was carried to France when the Italian princess , Catherine De Medicis , married the King of France . 
The most famous ballet of that time was called Ballet Comique De La Reine ( 1581 ) . 
Dances alternated with sung or spoken verses . 
Ballets were used in opera from its beginning . 
They were placed either in the middle of the acts or in the intermissions . 
The State Ballet of Rhode Island , the first incorporated group , was formed for the purpose of extending knowledge of the art of ballet in the Community , to promote interest in ballet performances , to contribute to the cultural life of the State , and to provide opportunity for gifted dance students who , for one reason or another , are unable to pursue a career and to develop others for the professional state ; ; and now , therefore , do I , John A. Notte , Jr. , Governor of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations , proclaim the week of Monday , November 13 , 1961 , as the State Ballet of Rhode Island Week , requesting all Rhode Islanders to give special attention to this unusual event which should contribute to the cultural life of the State . 
In testimony whereof , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the State to be affixed this 23d day of October , in the year of Our Lord , one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one , and of Independence , the one hundred and eighty-sixth . 
Governor Proclamation Thanksgiving Day by John A. Notte , Jr. , Governor As another Thanksgiving draws near , let us take time out from the often hectic pace of our lives to try and recapture the feelings that filled the hearts of the Pilgrims on the first Thanksgiving . 
The Pilgrims gathered to thank the Lord for His benevolence during their first year in the new land . 
They had been through trying times , but their faith in the Almighty had given them the courage and the strength to meet and overcome the many problems and difficulties that were the price they had to pay for freedom . 
And as the Pilgrims bowed their heads in humble gratitude , they shared another feeling -- the anticipation of what the future held for them and their posterity . 
They could not guess that from their concepts of liberty and freedom would some day be born a new nation that for years would be the symbol of hope to the oppressed countries of the world . 
They simply turned to God filled with gratitude and faith . 
We who are living today may learn a valuable lesson from those who celebrated the first Thanksgiving Day . 
The Lord has shown time and time again His love for us . 
We have only to compare the liberty and high standard of living we enjoy in this great country with the oppression and frugality of other nations to realize with humble gratitude that God's Providence has been with us since the very beginning of our country . 
And yet , accompanying our gratitude is the realization that we are living in a crucial time . 
With world peace constantly being threatened , most of us regard the future skeptically , and even with fear . 
It is at this time that we should imitate the Pilgrims by accompanying our prayers of thanks with the conviction that we shall continue to be in dire need for the Lord's protection in the future , if we are to have peace ; ; now , therefore , do I , John A. Notte , Jr. , governor of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations , proclaim Thursday , November 23rd , 1961 , as Thanksgiving Day , And so , let us remember on this day not only to thank the Almighty Who gave hope and courage to the Pilgrims , but also to place our trust in Him that He will continue to protect us in the future as He has in the past . 
In testimony whereof , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the State to be affixed this 21st day of November , in the year of Our Lord , one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one and of Independence , the one hundred and eighty-sixth . 
John A. Notte Jr. , Governor Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled , That the Act of July 3 , 1952 ( 66 Stat. 328 ) as amended ( 42 U.S.C. 1952-1958 ) , is further amended to read as follows : Section 1 . 
In view of the increasing shortage of usable surface and ground water in many parts of the Nation and the importance of finding new sources of supply to meet its present and future water needs , it is the policy of the Congress to provide for the development of practicable low-cost means for the large-scale production of water of a quality suitable for municipal , industrial , agricultural , and other beneficial consumptive uses from saline water , and for studies and research related thereto . 
As used in this Act , the term ' saline water ' includes sea water , brackish water , and other mineralized or chemically charged water , and the term ' United States ' extends to and includes the District of Columbia , the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico , and the territories and possessions of the United States . 
Sec. 2 . 
In order to accomplish the purposes of this Act , the Secretary of the Interior shall -- ( A ) conduct , encourage , and promote fundamental scientific research and basic studies to develop the best and most economical processes and methods for converting saline water into water suitable for beneficial consumptive purposes ; ; ( B ) conduct engineering research and technical development work to determine , by laboratory and pilot plant testing , the results of the research and studies aforesaid in order to develop processes and plant designs to the point where they can be demonstrated on a large and practical scale ; ; ( C ) recommend to the Congress from time to time authorization for construction and operation , or for participation in the construction and operation , of a demonstration plant for any process which he determines , on the basis of subsections ( A ) and ( B ) above , has great promise of accomplishing the purposes of this Act , such recommendation to be accompanied by a report on the size , location , and cost of the proposed plant and the engineering and economic details with respect thereto ; ; ( D ) study methods for the recovery and marketing of commercially valuable byproducts resulting from the conversion of saline water ; ; and ( E ) undertake economic studies and surveys to determine present and prospective costs of producing water for beneficial consumptive purposes in various parts of the United States by the leading saline water processes as compared with other standard methods . 
Sec. 3 . 
In carrying out his functions under Section 2 of this Act , the Secretary may -- ( A ) acquire the services of chemists , physicists , engineers , and other personnel by contract or otherwise ; ; ( B ) enter into contracts with educational institutions , scientific organizations , and industrial and engineering firms ; ; ( C ) make research and training grants ; ; ( D ) utilize the facilities of Federal scientific laboratories ; ; ( E ) establish and operate necessary facilities and test sites at which to carry on the continuous research , testing , development , and programing necessary to effectuate the purposes of this Act ; ; ( F ) acquire secret processes , technical data , inventions , patent applications , patents , licenses , land and interests in land ( including water rights ) , plants and facilities , and other property or rights by purchase , license , lease , or donation ; ; ( G ) assemble and maintain pertinent and current scientific literature , both domestic and foreign , and issue bibliographical data with respect thereto ; ; ( H ) cause on-site inspections to be made of promising projects , domestic and foreign , and , in the case of projects located in the United States , cooperate and participate in their development in instances in which the purposes of this Act will be served thereby ; ; ( I ) foster and participate in regional , national , and international conferences relating to saline water conversion ; ; ( J ) coordinate , correlate , and publish information with a view to advancing the development of low-cost saline water conversion projects ; ; and ( K ) cooperate with other Federal departments and agencies , with State and local departments , agencies , and instrumentalities , and with interested persons , firms , institutions , and organizations . 
Sec. 4 . 
( A ) Research and development activities undertaken by the Secretary shall be coordinated or conducted jointly with the Department of Defense to the end that developments under this Act which are primarily of a civil nature will contribute to the defense of the Nation and that developments which are primarily of a military nature will , to the greatest practicable extent compatible with military and security requirements , be available to advance the purposes of this Act and to strengthen the civil economy of the Nation . 
The fullest cooperation by and with Atomic Energy Commission , the Department of Health , Education , and Welfare , the Department of State , and other concerned agencies shall also be carried out in the interest of achieving the objectives of this Act . 
( B ) All research within the United States contracted for , sponsored , cosponsored , or authorized under authority of this Act , shall be provided for in such manner that all information , uses , products , processes , patents , and other developments resulting from such research developed by Government expenditure will ( with such exceptions and limitations , if any , as the Secretary may find to be necessary in the interest of national defense ) be available to the general public . 
This subsection shall not be so construed as to deprive the owner of any background patent relating thereto of such rights as he may have thereunder . 
Sec. 5 . 
( A ) The Secretary may dispose of water and byproducts resulting from his operations under this Act . 
All moneys received from dispositions under this section shall be paid into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts ) . 
( B ) Nothing in the Act shall be construed to alter existing law with respect to the ownership and control of water . 
Sec. 6 . 
The Secretary shall make reports to the President and the Congress at the beginning of each regular session of the action taken or instituted by him under the provisions of this Act and of prospective action during the ensuing year . 
Sec. 7 . 
The Secretary of the Interior may issue rules and regulations to effectuate the purposes of this Act . 
Sec. 8 . 
There are authorized to be appropriated such sums , to remain available until expended , as may be necessary , but not more than $75,000,000 in all , ( A ) to carry out the provisions of this Act during the fiscal years 1962 to 1967 , inclusive ; ; ( B ) to finance , for not more than two years beyond the end of said period , such grants , contracts , cooperative agreements , and studies as may theretofore have been undertaken pursuant to this Act ; ; and ( C ) to finance , for not more than three years beyond the end of said period , such activities as are required to correlate , coordinate , and round out the results of studies and research undertaken pursuant to this Act : Provided , That funds available in any one year for research and development may , subject to the approval of the Secretary of State to assure that such activities are consistent with the foreign policy objectives of the United States , be expended in cooperation with public or private agencies in foreign countries in the development of processes useful to the program in the United States : And provided further , That every such contract or agreement made with any public or private agency in a foreign country shall contain provisions effective to insure that the results or information developed in connection therewith shall be available without cost to the United States for the use of the United States throughout the world and for the use of the general public within the United States . 
Sec. 2 . 
Section 4 of the joint resolution of September 2 , 1958 ( 72 Stat. 1707 ; ; 42 U. S. C. 1958 ( ) ) , is hereby amended to read : The authority of the Secretary of the Interior under this joint resolution to construct , operate , and maintain demonstration plants shall terminate upon the expiration of twelve years after the date on which this joint resolution is approved . 
Upon the expiration of a period deemed adequate for demonstration purposes for each plant , but not to exceed such twelve-year period , the Secretary shall proceed as promptly as practicable to dispose of any plants so constructed by sale to the highest bidder , or as may otherwise be directed by Act of Congress . 
Upon such sale , there shall be returned to any State or public agency which has contributed financial assistance under Section 3 of this joint resolution a proper share of the net proceeds of the sale . 
Approved September 22 , 1961 . 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized and directed to make or cause to be made a study covering -- ( 1 ) the causes of injuries and health hazards in Metal and nonmetallic mines ( excluding coal and lignite mines ) ; ; ( 2 ) the relative effectiveness of voluntary versus mandatory reporting of accident statistics ; ; ( 3 ) the relative contribution to safety of inspection programs embodying -- ( A ) right-of-entry only and ( B ) right-of-entry plus enforcement authority ; ; ( 4 ) the effectiveness of health and safety education and training ; ; ( 5 ) the magnitude of effort and costs of each of these possible phases of an effective safety program for metal and nonmetallic mines ( excluding coal and lignite mines ) ; ; and ( 6 ) the scope and adequacy of State mine-safety laws applicable to such mines and the enforcement of such laws . 
Sec. 2 . 
( A ) The Secretary of the Interior or any duly authorized representative shall be entitled to admission to , and to require reports from the operator of , any metal or nonmetallic mine which is in a State ( excluding any coal or lignite mine ) , the products of which regularly enter commerce or the operations of which substantially affect commerce , for the purpose of gathering data and information necessary for the study authorized in the first section of this Act . 
( B ) As used in this section -- ( 1 ) the term `` State '' includes the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and any possession of the United States ; ; and ( 2 ) the term `` commerce '' means commerce between any State and any place outside thereof , or between points within the same State but through any place outside thereof . 
Sec. 3 . 
The Secretary of the Interior shall submit a report of his findings , together with recommendations for an effective safety program for metal and nonmetallic mines ( excluding coal and lignite mines ) based upon such findings , to the Congress not more than two years after the date of enactment of this Act . 
Approved September 26 , 1961 . 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized and directed to establish and maintain a program of stabilization payments to small domestic producers of lead and zinc ores and concentrates in order to stabilize the mining of lead and zinc by small domestic producers on public , Indian , and other lands as provided in this Act . 
Sec. 2 . 
( A ) Subject to the limitations of this Act , the Secretary shall make stabilization payments to small domestic producers upon presentation of evidence satisfactory to him of their status as such producers and of the sale by them of newly mined ores , or concentrates produced therefrom , as provided in this Act . 
Payments shall be made only with respect to the metal content as determined by assay . 
( B ) Such payments shall be made to small domestic producers of lead as long as the market price for common lead at New York , New York , as determined by the Secretary , is below 14-1/2 cents per pound , and such payments shall be 75 per centum of the difference between 14-1/2 cents per pound and the average market price for the month in which the sale occurred as determined by the Secretary . 
( C ) Such payments shall be made to small domestic producers of zinc as long as the market price for prime western zinc at East Saint Louis , Illinois , as determined by the Secretary , is below 14-1/2 cents per pound , and such payments shall be 55 per centum of the difference between 14-1/2 cents per pound and the average market price for the month in which the sale occurred as determined by the Secretary . 
( D ) The maximum amount of payments which may be made pursuant to this Act on account of sales of newly mined ores or concentrates produced therefrom made during the calendar year 1962 shall not exceed $4,500,000 ; ; the maximum amount of such payments which may be made on account of such sales made during the calendar year 1963 shall not exceed $4,500,000 ; ; the maximum amount of such payments which may be made on account of such sales made during the calendar year 1964 shall not exceed $4,000,000 ; ; and the maximum amount of such payments which may be made on account of such sales made during the calendar year 1965 shall not exceed $3,500,000 . 
In the same period , 431 presentations by members of the staff were made to local , national , and international medical groups . 
3 . 
Education : A . 
The education function of the Institute is carried on by the staff in the departments of pathology and its consultants . 
During fiscal year 1959 , six courses were conducted : Forensic Pathology , Application of Histochemistry to Pathology , Pathology of Diseases of Laboratory Animals , Ophthalmic Pathology , Pathology of the Oral Regions , and a Cardiovasculatory Pathology Seminar . 
During fiscal year 1960 , seven courses were conducted : Application of Histochemistry to Pathology , Forensic Pathology , Pathology of Diseases of Laboratory Animals , Pathology of the Oral Regions , Ophthalmic Pathology , Forensic Sciences Symposium , and Orthopedic Pathology . 
From 1 July 1960 through 31 January 1961 , six courses were conducted : Workshop in Resident Training in Pathology , Pathology of Diseases of Laboratory Animals , Application of Histochemistry of Pathology , Orthopedic Pathology , Forensic Sciences Symposium , and Forensic Pathology . 
B . 
During fiscal years 1959 and 1960 , there were 139 military and civilian students who came to the Institute for varying periods of special instruction . 
4 . 
Research : The Institute is engaged in an extensive program of medico-military scientific research in both morphological and experimental pathology . 
Among the specific areas of concentration in which the staff is engaged , are such projects as biological and biochemical studies of the effects of microwaves ; ; study of motor end plates in man and animals ; ; investigation of respiratory diseases of laboratory animals ; ; metabolic responses to reduced oxygen tension ; ; neuropathology of nuclear and cosmic radiation ; ; carcinoma of prostate ; ; evaluation of histochemical techniques ; ; and hip dysplasia in dogs . 
There has been an increase in cooperative research with other Federal agencies and civilian institutions . 
During the period from 1 July 1960 through 31 January 1961 , additional research affiliations were effected with the U. S. Army Medical Research and Development Command to conduct research in procedures for quantitative electron microscopy , and for the study of biophysical and biological studies of the structure and function of ocular tissue . 
Also , the Defense Atomic Support Agency sponsored a long-range study at this Institute on the response of massive suspension cultures of mammalian cells to acute radiation . 
Other scientific agencies , both Federal and civilian , supported studies in quantitative electron microscopical approach to microchemistry and microcytochemistry ; ; the investigation of the relationship of diphosphopyridine nucleotide synthesizine enzyme to tumor growth ; ; morphological study and classification of leukemia and lymphoma cases in animals ; ; and the study of structural changes in M. leprae and other mycobacteria . 
Medical Illustration Service 1 . 
The Medical Illustration Service is responsible for the collection , publication , exhibition , and file of medical illustration material of medico-military importance to the Armed Forces . 
In addition to maintaining a permanent central file of illustrations of diseases , wounds , and injuries of military importance , it provides facilities for clinical photography , photomicrography , and medical arts , and operates a printing plant , by permission of Congressional Committee , for publication of an `` Atlas of Tumor Pathology '' . 
It also maintains shops for the design and fabrication of exhibits , training aids and instruments and libraries for the loan of films and teaching lantern slide sets . 
2 . 
During this period , a total of 762 exhibits were presented at 442 medical and scientific meetings . 
Of these exhibits , 154 were newly constructed . 
Twenty-nine exhibits received awards . 
3 . 
Visual and operable training aids developed by the Medical Illustration Service , were used in support of Army Medical Service mass casualty exercises . 
Members of the Medical Illustration Service lectured and conducted demonstrations on the use of training aids to military personnel and various civilian medical organizations . 
Demonstrations of new and projected training aids were conducted at the Medical Service Instructor's Conference , Brooke Army Medical Center , Texas . 
4 . 
In support of the emphasis placed by the Department of Defense on instruction in emergency medical care , the Medical Illustration Service developed casualty simulation kits and rescue breathing manikins which are being field tested ; ; and overhead projector transparency sets on the subjects of Military Sanitation : First Aid For Soldiers ; ; Bandaging And Splinting ; ; The Emergency Medical Treatment Unit , Phase 1 ; ; and Emergency War Surgery in support of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization ( NATO ) Handbook . 
Fifty lantern slide teaching sets on the subject of `` Emergency War Surgery ( NATO ) '' were assembled and distributed to the Medical Military Services of foreign Governments associated with NATO and South-East Asia Treaty Organization . 
The British and Canadian Liaison Officers , as well as Office of Civil and Defense Mobilization , the American Red Cross , and similar interested organizations were informed from time to time as training aids were developed . 
5 . 
Nine veterinary lantern slide teaching sets were developed and distributed , and lantern slide teaching sets on 21 pathology subjects were added to the loan library of the Medical Illustration Service . 
Illustrations were prepared for 11 Department of the Army manuals and one Graphic Training Aid . 
Sixteen lantern slide sets were loaned to the Government of India and eight sets were forwarded to the U.S. Embassy , Managua , Nicaragua for the Educational Exchange Program . 
The Senate Subcommittee on Reorganization and International Organizations was provided samples of visual aids on first aid and personal health produced by the Medical Illustration Service . 
6 . 
Six fascicles ( 10,000 copies each ) of the `` Atlas Of Tumor Pathology '' were completed during the period of this report . 
The American Registry Of Pathology This consists of 25 individual registries , two of which were added during fiscal years 1959-1960 ( The Registry Of Forensic Pathology and The Testicular Tumor Registry ) . 
These registries are sponsored by 18 national medical , dental , and veterinary societies and have as their mission the assembling of selected cases of interest to military medicine and of establishing through the mechanism of follow-up of living patients the natural history of various diseases of military-medical importance . 
The American Registry Of Pathology operates as a cooperative enterprise in medical research and education between the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology and the civilian medical profession on a national and international basis , under such conditions as may be agreed upon between the National Research Council and The Surgeons General of the Army , Navy , and Air Force . 
The staff utilized the collected material in these registries for numerous lectures to national and international meetings , exhibits , and published studies . 
During the period of this report , 37,470 new cases were entered into the various registries . 
These were selected carefully and included not only detailed clinical information but adequate pathology of value for research and educational purposes . 
In this same period , six new fascicles of the Atlas Of Tumor Pathology were published and distributed to medical centers world-wide . 
There were 54,320 copies of fascicles sold and 642 copies distributed free during this period . 
Forty-five new Clinico-pathologic Conferences were prepared , bringing the total to 61 available for loan distribution . 
Nine new teaching Clinico-pathologic Conference sets were prepared , which makes a total of 70 types of teaching sets for loan . 
During this period , 7,827 teaching sets were distributed on loan . 
The Clinico-pathologic Conferences have been acknowledged as of great value and in consequent great demand by the small isolated military hospitals . 
The demand for teaching sets continues unabated since they provide the means for the military physicians to review the pathology of selected disease processes or organ systems for review of basic sciences and correlation of clinical physiological behavior with structural changes . 
The Medical Museum In fiscal year 1959 , the Medical Museum was moved to Chase Hall , a temporary building on Independence Avenue at Ninth Street , Southwest , and continued to display to the public the achievements of the Armed Forces Medical Services . 
During the period of this report , 63 panel exhibits depicting the latest developments in medical research were displayed . 
Of the 375 exhibits ( of all types ) shown , 161 were new or refurbished . 
Of the 885 specimens newly mounted or refurbished , 254 were prepared for other agencies . 
Eighty-five specimens were loaned for study purposes . 
An exhibit , `` Macropathology -- An Ancient Art , A New Science '' , was presented at the annual meeting of the American Medical Association . 
A three-dimensional exhibit depicting `` A Century Of Naval Medicine '' was formally presented to The Director by George S. Squibb , great-grandson of the founder of E. R. Squibb and Sons , for permanent display in the Museum . 
Space was provided for short-time guest medical exhibits , and the Museum collected new accessions of microscopes , medical , surgical , and diagnostic instruments , uniform , and similar items of historical medico-military significance . 
During the period , the laboratory rendered centralized macropathological service to qualified requesters . 
Specimens were mounted for military installations , governmental agencies , and medical schools . 
Three hundred five copies of the Manual Of Macropathological Techniques were distributed . 
Thirty-five military and civilian students received laboratory training . 
During fiscal years 1959 and 1960 , there were 795,586 visitors to the Museum . 
During the period from 1 July 1960 through 31 January 1961 , the Medical Museum was required to move to Temporary Building `` S '' on the Mall from Chase Hall . 
Throughout the period and during the movement operation , the Museum continued its functional support of the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology . 
Armed Forces Medical Publication Agency The Armed Forces Medical Publication Agency , established in 1949 , has published , since January 1950 , The United States Armed Forces Medical Journal as a triservice publication to furnish material of professional interest to Medical Department officers of the three military services . 
Its supplement , The Medical Technicians Bulletin , supplied similar material to enlisted medical personnel . 
These publications replaced the U. S. Naval Medical Bulletin , published continuously from 1907 through 1959 , as well as the Navy's Hospital Corps Quarterly and the Bulletin of the U. S. Army Medical Department , published from 1922 to 1949 . 
In addition , their establishment made it unnecessary to begin publication of a contemplated Air Force medical bulletin . 
Estimated annual savings resulting from publication of the Journal and Bulletin on a triservice basis , as compared with the cost of producing separate periodicals for each service , were between $65,000 and $70,000 . 
Additionally , on the many ships at sea and in the smaller naval stations , the availability of the Journal removed the necessity of subscribing to several additional journals of civilian origin over and above the quantity now authorized , in order to provide any reasonably comparable coverage . 
From 1 July 1958 to 30 June 1960 , 24 numbers of the Journal and nine of the Bulletin were published . 
Each Journal contained articles of professional and clinical interest , and departments devoted to military medical news , reviews of new books , and other features of interest to officers of the medical services . 
The Council on National Defense of the American Medical Association contributed a brief article to each issue entitled , `` This Is Your A.M.A. '' . 
Beginning with the October 1959 issue of the Journal , the method of production of copy for photo-offset reproduction was changed from varityping to hot typesetting . 
This resulted in an improved appearance , but was followed by an increase in printing cost that necessitated the institution of major economies to keep within the total of allocated funds . 
The use of 100 instead of 140 substance paper plus the adoption of side stapling beginning with the May 1960 issue reduced costs sufficiently to allow completion of the fiscal year with nearly $4,000 in unexpended funds . 
Two special issues were published , one for November 1959 on Space Medicine , the other the Tenth Anniversary issue for January 1960 . 
The February 1960 issue marked the reinstitution of the section entitled , `` The Medical Officer Writes '' . 
Replacing the discontinued Medical Technicians Bulletin , publication of which was suspended with the November-December 1959 issue , a section called `` Technical Notes '' was inaugurated on a bimonthly basis beginning with the April 1960 issue . 
Occasional features were published on historical medicine , special reports , bibliography , and `` Collector's Items '' . 
In May 1960 , the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology began a series of articles on the `` Medical Museum '' , and in June , the Institute started contributing a regular monthly `` Case For Diagnosis '' . 
The Institute also planned to furnish a regular series of articles , beginning in the fall of 1960 , on its more significant Scientific Exhibits . 
The Armed Forces Epidemiological Board agreed to submit each month a report for one of its 12 commissions , so that each commission will report once a year on some phase of its work calculated to be of particular interest and value to medical officers of the Armed Forces . 
The first report in this continuing series appeared in the September 1960 issue of the Journal . 
Another recent achievement was the successful development of a method for the complete combustion in a bomb calorimeter of a metal in fluorine when the product is relatively non-volatile . 
This work gave a heat of formation of aluminum fluoride which closely substantiates a value which had been determined by a less direct method , and raises this property to 15 percent above that accepted a few years ago . 
Similar measurements are being initiated to resolve a large discrepancy in the heat of formation of another important combustion product , beryllium fluoride . 
The development and testing of new apparatus to measure other properties is nearing completion . 
In one of these , an exploding-wire device to study systems thermodynamically up to 6,000 Af and 100 atmospheres pressure , a major goal was achieved . 
The accuracy of measuring the total electrical energy entering an exploding wire during a few microseconds was verified when two independent types of comparison with the heat energy produced had an uncertainty of less than 2 percent . 
This agreement is considered very good for such short time intervals . 
The method of calibration employs a fixed resistance element as a calorimeter . 
The element is inserted in the discharge circuit in place of the exploding wire , and the calorimetric heating of the element is measured with high accuracy . 
This is used as a reference for comparing the ohmic heating and the electrical energy obtained from the measured current through the element and the measured voltage across the element . 
A high-speed shutter has been developed in order to permit photographic observation of any portion of the electrical wire explosion . 
The shutter consists of two parts : a fast-opening part and a fast-closing part . 
Using Edgerton's method , the fast-closing action is obtained from the blackening of a window by exploding a series of parallel lead wires . 
The fast-opening of the shutter consists of a piece of aluminum foil ( approximately Af ) placed directly in front of the camera lens so that no light may pass into the camera . 
The opening action is obtained when a capacitor , charged to high voltage , is suddenly discharged through the foil . 
During the discharge the magnetic forces set up by the passage of current cause the edges of the foil to roll inward toward its center line , thus allowing light to pass into the camera . 
Experiments have shown that the shutter is 75 percent open in about 60-80 microseconds . 
The shutter aperture may be made larger or smaller by changing the foil area and adjusting the electrical energy input to the foil . 
Laboratory measurements of interstellar radio spectra . 
Besides the well-known hydrogen line at 21 cm wavelength , the spectra of extraterrestrial radio sources may contain sharp lines characteristic of other atoms , ions , and small molecules . 
The detection and study of such line spectra would add considerably to present information on interstellar gas clouds and , perhaps , planetary atmospheres . 
Among the most likely producers of detectable radio line spectra are the light diatomic hydrides OH and CH ; ; somewhat less likely sources are the heavier hydrides SH , SiH , and Aj . 
Very small concentrations of these hydrides should be detectable ; ; in interstellar gas , concentrations as low as Af molecules per Af may be sufficient , as compared to the Af hydrogen atom's Af required for detection of the 21-cm line . 
High sensitivity in radio telescopes is achieved by reducing the bandwidth of the receiver ; ; therefore , only with precise foreknowledge of the line frequencies is an astronomical search for the radio spectra of these molecules feasible . 
To secure precise measurements of these frequencies , a research program in free radical microwave spectroscopy has been started . 
Since conventional methods are insensitive at the low frequencies of these molecular transitions , the paramagnetic resonance method is being used instead . 
This involves the application of a strong magnetic field to the radical vapor , which shifts the low-frequency spectra to a conveniently high microwave range , where they may be measured with optimum sensitivity . 
The first diatomic hydride investigated by the paramagnetic resonance method was the OH radical . 
Results of this experiment include the frequencies of the two strong spectral lines by which OH may be identified in interstellar gas ; ; the frequencies are 1665.32 and 1667.36 Af , with an uncertainty of 0.10 Af . 
Success in observing these spectral lines has so far , apparently , been confined to the laboratory ; ; extraterrestrial observations have yet to be reported . 
Preparations are being made for similar experiments on CH and SH radicals . 
Low temperature thermometry . 
The Bureau is pursuing an active program to provide a temperature scale and thermometer calibration services in the range 1.5 to 20 Af . 
The efforts and accomplishments fall into three main categories : absolute thermometry based upon the velocity of sound in helium gas , secondary thermometry involving principally studies of the behavior of germanium resistors , and helium-4 vapor-pressure measurements ( see p. 144 ) . 
Acoustical interferometer . 
An acoustical interferometer has been constructed and used , with helium gas as the thermometric fluid , to measure temperatures near 4.2 and 2.1 Af . 
Such an interferometer provides a means of absolute temperature measurement , and may be used as an alternative to the gas thermometer . 
When values of temperature derived with this instrument were compared with the accepted values associated with liquid helium-4 vapor pressures , differences of about 10 and 7 millidegrees respectively were found . 
This result is preliminary , and work is continuing . 
Resistance thermometers . 
Carbon resistors and impurity-doped germanium resistors have been investigated for use as precision secondary thermometers in the liquid helium temperature region . 
Several germanium resistors have been thermally cycled from 300 to 4.2 Af and their resistances have been found to be reproducible within 1/3 millidegree when temperatures were derived from a vapor pressure thermometer whose tubing is jacketed through most of the liquid helium . 
Preliminary calibrations of the resistors have been made from 4.21 to 2.16 Af at every 0.1 Af . 
The estimated standard deviations of the data for two of the resistors were 1 millidegree ; ; and for the third resistor , 3.3 millidegrees . 
Vapor pressure method . 
The reproducibilities of helium vapor-pressure thermometers have been investigated in conjunction with a `` constant temperature '' liquid helium bath from 4.2 to 1.8 Af . 
Surface temperature gradients have been found to exist in liquid helium baths contained in 15- and 25-liter metallic storage dewars . 
The gradient was about one half of a millidegree at 4.2 Af but increased to several millidegrees for bath temperatures slightly greater than the **yl point . 
A hydrostatic head correction has been neither necessary nor applicable in the determination of vapor pressures or temperatures for the bulk liquid helium . 
However , the surface temperature gradient can produce erroneous vapor-pressure measurements for the bulk liquid helium unless precautions are taken to isolate the tube ( which passes through the surface to the vapor pressure bulb ) from the liquid helium surface . 
It has also been observed , in helium 2 , that large discrepancies can exist between surface vapor pressures and those pressures measured by a vapor pressure thermometer . 
This has been attributed to helium film flow in the vapor pressure thermometer . 
In this case also the design of the thermometer can be modified to reduce the helium film flow . 
Pressure transducer for pvt measurements . 
Precise pressure-volume-temperature measurements on corrosive gases are dependent on a sensitive yet rugged pressure transducer . 
A prototype which fulfills the requirements was developed and thoroughly tested . 
The transducer is a null-type instrument and employs a stretched diaphragm , 0.001 in. thick and 1 in. in diameter . 
A small pressure unbalance displaces the diaphragm and changes the capacitance between the diaphragm and an electrically insulated plate spaced 0.001 in. apart ( for Af ) . 
Spherical concave backing surfaces support the diaphragm when excessive pressures are applied and prevent the stresses within the diaphragm from exceeding the elastic limit . 
Over a temperature range from 25 to 200 Af and at pressures up to 250 atm , an overload of 300 psi , applied for a period of one day , results in an uncertainty in the pressure of , at most , one millimeter of mercury . 
Transport properties of air . 
A 6-year study of the transport properties of air at elevated temperatures has been completed . 
This project was carried out under sponsorship of the Ballistic Missile Division of the Air Research and Development Command , U.S. Air Force , and had as its goal the investigation of the transport by diffusion of the heat energy of chemical binding . 
A significant effect discovered during the study is the existence of Prandtl numbers reaching values of more than unity in the nitrogen dissociation region . 
Another effect discovered is the large coefficient of thermal diffusion tending to separate nitrogen from the oxygen when temperature differences straddling the nitrogen dissociation region are present . 
The results of the study , based on collision integrals computed from the latest critically evaluated data on intermolecular forces in air , will be reported in the form of a table of viscosity , thermal conductivity , thermal diffusion , and diffusion coefficients at temperatures of 1,000 to 10,000 Af and of logarithm of pressure in atmospheres from Af to Af times normal density . 
International cooperative activities . 
In March , 1961 , representatives of the national laboratories of Australia , Canada , The Netherlands , United Kingdom , U.S.S.R. , United States , and West Germany , met at the NBS to devise means for reaching international agreement on a temperature scale between 10 and 90 Af . 
As a first step toward this goal , arrangements were worked out for comparing the scales now in use through circulation of a group of standard platinum resistance thermometers for calibration by each national laboratory . 
Such a group of thermometers was obtained and calibrated at the Aj . 
These thermometers have now been sent to the United Kingdom for calibration at the National Physical Laboratory . 
Temperature symposium . 
During the last week of march 1961 , Columbus , Ohio was the site of the Fourth Symposium on Temperature , Its Measurement And Control In Science And Industry . 
The Symposium , which was jointly sponsored by the American Institute of Physics , the Instrument Society of America , and the National Bureau of Standards , attracted nearly one thousand registrants , including many from abroad . 
The Bureau contributed to the planning and success of the Symposium through the efforts of Mr. W. A. Wildhack , General Chairman , and Dr. C. M. Herzfeld , Program Chairman . 
Dr. A. V. Astin , NBS Director , opened the 5-day session with introductory remarks , following which a total of twenty-six papers were given throughout the week by NBS scientists , from both the Washington and Boulder Laboratories . 
2.1.6 . 
Atomic physics In addition to the basic programs in wavelength standards , spectroscopy , solid state physics , interactions of the free electron and atomic constants which are necessary to provide the foundation for technological progress , the Bureau has strengthened its activities in laboratory astrophysics . 
The programs in infrared spectroscopy are undergoing reorientation toward wavelength standards in the far infrared , the application of infrared techniques to solid state studies , and increased emphasis on high resolution instrumentation . 
Two data centers have been established for the collection , indexing , critical evaluation , and dissemination of bibliographies and critical values in the fields of transition probabilities and collision cross sections . 
Laboratory astrophysics . 
Transition probabilities . 
Under the sponsorship of the Office of Naval Research and the Advanced Research Projects Agency , a data center was established to gather and index all published information on atomic transition probabilities . 
An exhaustive survey was made of the literature , and a primary reference file of approximately 600 references was catalogued . 
Selected bibliographies and tables of available data are now in preparation . 
A wall-stabilized high-current arc source was constructed and used to study transition probabilities of atomic hydrogen and oxygen . 
This apparatus will also be used to measure transition probabilities of a large number of other elements . 
A study of the hydrogen line profiles indicates that a measurement of these profiles can be used to calculate a temperature for the arc plasma that is reliable to about Af percent . 
A set of tables containing spectral intensities for 39,000 lines of 70 elements , as observed in a copper matrix in a d-c arc , was completed and published . 
Studies of the intensity data indicate that they may be converted to approximate transition probabilities . 
These data are not of the precision obtainable by the methods previously mentioned , but the vast number of approximate values available will be useful in many areas . 
Atomic energy levels . 
Research continues on the very complex spectra of the rare earth elements . 
New computer and automation techniques were applied to these spectra with considerable success . 
( E ) In addition to the penalties provided in Title 18 , United States Code , Section 1001 , any person guilty of any act , as provided therein , with respect to any matter under this Title , shall forfeit all rights under this Title , and , if payment shall have been made or granted , the Commission shall take such action as may be necessary to recover the same . 
( F ) In connection with any claim decided by the Commission pursuant to this Title in which an award is made , the Commission may , upon the written request of the claimant or any attorney heretofore or hereafter employed by such claimant , determine and apportion the just and reasonable attorney's fees for services rendered with respect to such claim , but the total amount of the fees so determined in any case shall not exceed 10 per centum of the total amount paid pursuant to the award . 
Written evidence that the claimant and any such attorney have agreed to the amount of the attorney's fees shall be conclusive upon the Commission : Provided , however , That the total amount of the fees so agreed upon does not exceed 10 per centum of the total amount paid pursuant to the award . 
Any fee so determined shall be entered as a part of such award , and payment thereof shall be made by the Secretary of the Treasury by deducting the amount thereof from the total amount paid pursuant to the award . 
Any agreement to the contrary shall be unlawful and void . 
The Commission is authorized and directed to mail to each claimant in proceedings before the Commission notice of the provisions of this subsection . 
Whoever , in the United States or elsewhere , pays or offers to pay , or promises to pay , or receives on account of services rendered or to be rendered in connection with any such claim , compensation which , when added to any amount previously paid on account of such services , will exceed the amount of fees so determined by the Commission , shall be guilty of a misdemeanor , and , upon conviction thereof , shall be fined not more than $5,000 or imprisoned not more than twelve months , or both , and if any such payment shall have been made or granted , the Commission shall take such action as may be necessary to recover the same , and , in addition thereto , any such person shall forfeit all rights under this Title . 
( G ) The Attorney General shall assign such officers and employees of the Department of Justice as may be necessary to represent the United States as to any claims of the Government of the United States with respect to which the Commission has jurisdiction under this title . 
Any and all payments required to be made by the Secretary of the Treasury under this title pursuant to any award made by the Commission to the Government of the United States shall be covered into the Treasury to the credit of miscellaneous receipts . 
( H ) The Commission shall notify all claimants of the approval or denial of their claims , stating the reasons and grounds therefor , and if approved , shall notify such claimants of the amount for which such claims are approved . 
Any claimant whose claim is denied , or is approved for less than the full amount of such claim , shall be entitled , under such regulations as the Commission may prescribe , to a hearing before the Commission , or its duly authorized representatives , with respect to such claim . 
Upon such hearing , the Commission may affirm , modify , or revise its former action with respect to such claim , including a denial or reduction in the amount theretofore allowed with respect to such claim . 
The action of the Commission in allowing or denying any claim under this title shall be final and conclusive on all questions of law and fact and not subject to review by the Secretary of State or any other official , department , agency , or establishment of the United States or by any court by mandamus or otherwise . 
( I ) The Commission may in its discretion enter an award with respect to one or more items deemed to have been clearly established in an individual claim while deferring consideration and action on other items of the same claim . 
( J ) The Commission shall comply with the provisons of the Administrative Procedure Act of 1946 except as otherwise specifically provided by this title . 
Sec. 5 . 
The Commission shall , as soon as possible , and in the order of the making of such awards , certify to the Secretary of the Treasury and to the Secretary of State copies of the awards made in favor of the Government of the United States or of nationals of the United States under this Title . 
The Commission shall certify to the Secretary of State , upon his request , copies of the formal submissions of claims filed pursuant to subsection ( B ) of Section 4 of this Act for transmission to the foreign government concerned . 
Sec. 6 . 
The Commission shall complete its affairs in connection with settlement of United States-Yugoslav claims arising under the Yugoslav Claims Agreement of 1948 not later than December 31 , 1954 : : Provided , That nothing in this provision shall be construed to limit the life of the Commission , or its authority to act on future agreements which may be effected under the provisions of this legislation . 
Sec. 7 . 
( A ) Subject to the limitations hereinafter provided , the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized and directed to pay , as prescribed by Section 8 of this Title , an amount not exceeding the principal of each award , plus accrued interests on such awards as bear interest , certified pursuant to Section 5 of this Title , in accordance with the award . 
Such payments , and applications for such payments , shall be made in accordance with such regulations as the Secretary of the Treasury may prescribe . 
( B ) There shall be deducted from the amount of each payment made pursuant to subsection ( C ) of Section 8 , as reimbursement for the expenses incurred by the United States , an amount equal to 5 per centum of such payment . 
All amounts so deducted shall be covered into the Treasury to the credit of miscellaneous receipts . 
( C ) Payments made pursuant to this Title shall be made only to the person or persons on behalf of whom the award is made , except that -- ( 1 ) if such person is deceased or is under a legal disability , payment shall be made to his legal representative : Provided , That if the total award is not over $500 and there is no qualified executor or administrator , payment may be made to the person or persons found by the Comptroller General of the United States to be entitled thereto , without the necessity of compliance with the requirements of law with respect to the administration of estates ; ; ( 2 ) in the case of a partnership or corporation , the existence of which has been terminated and on behalf of which an award is made , payment shall be made , except as provided in paragraphs ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) , to the person or persons found by the Comptroller General of the United States to be entitled thereto ; ; ( 3 ) if a receiver or trustee for any such partnership or corporation has been duly appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States and has not been discharged prior to the date of payment , payment shall be made to such receiver or trustee in accordance with the order of the court ; ; ( 4 ) if a receiver or trustee for any such partnership or corporation , duly appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States , makes an assignment of the claim , or any part thereof , with respect to which an award is made , or makes an assignment of such award , or any part thereof , payment shall be made to the assignee , as his interest may appear ; ; and ( 5 ) in the case of any assignment of an award , or any part thereof , which is made in writing and duly acknowledged and filed , after such award is certified to the Secretary of the Treasury , payment may , in the discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury , be made to the assignee , as his interest may appear . 
( D ) Whenever the Secretary of the Treasury , or the Comptroller General of the United States , as the case may be , shall find that any person is entitled to any such payment , after such payment shall have been received by such person , it shall be an absolute bar to recovery by any other person against the United States , its officers , agents , or employees with respect to such payment . 
( E ) Any person who makes application for any such payment shall be held to have consented to all the provisions of this Title . 
( F ) Nothing in the Title shall be construed as the assumption of any liability by the United States for the payment or satisfaction , in whole or in part , of any claim on behalf of any national of the United States against any foreign government . 
Sec. 8 . 
( A ) There are hereby created in the Treasury of the United States ( 1 ) a special fund to be known as the Yugoslav Claims Fund ; ; and ( 2 ) such other special funds as may , in the discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury , be required each to be a claims fund to be known by the name of the foreign government which has entered into a settlement agreement with the Government of the United States as described in subsection ( A ) of Section 4 of this Title . 
There shall be covered into the Treasury to the credit of the proper special fund all funds hereinafter specified . 
All payments authorized under Section 7 of this Title shall be disbursed from the proper fund , as the case may be , and all amounts covered into the Treasury to the credit of the aforesaid funds are hereby permanently appropriated for the making of the payments authorized by Section 7 of this Title . 
( B ) The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized and directed to cover into -- ( 1 ) the Yugoslav Claims Fund the sum of $17,000,000 being the amount paid by the Government of the Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia pursuant to the Yugoslav Claims Agreement of 1948 ; ; ( 2 ) a special fund created for that purpose pursuant to subsection ( A ) of this section any amounts hereafter paid , in United States dollars , by a foreign government which has entered into a claims settlement agreement with the Government of the United States as described in subsection ( A ) of Section 4 of this Title . 
( C ) The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized and directed out of the sums covered into any of the funds pursuant to subsection ( B ) of this section , and after making the deduction provided for in Section 7 ( B ) of this Title -- ( 1 ) to make payments in full of the principal of awards of $1,000 or less , certified pursuant to Section 5 of this Title ; ; ( 2 ) to make payments of $1,000 on the principal of each award of more than $1,000 in principal amount , certified pursuant to Section 5 of this Title ; ; ( 3 ) to make additional payment of not to exceed 25 per centum of the unpaid principal of awards in the principal amount of more than $1,000 ; ; ( 4 ) after completing the payments prescribed by paragraphs ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) of this subsection , to make payments , from time to time in ratable proportions , on account of the unpaid principal of all awards in the principal amount of more than $1,000 , according to the proportions which the unpaid principal of such awards bear to the total amount in the fund available for distribution at the time such payments are made ; ; and ( 5 ) after payment has been made of the principal amounts of all such awards , to make pro rata payments on account of accrued interest on such awards as bear interest . 
( D ) The Secretary of the Treasury , upon the concurrence of the Secretary of State , is authorized and directed , out of the sum covered into the Yugoslav Claims Fund pursuant to subsection ( B ) of this section , after completing the payments of such funds pursuant to subsection ( C ) of this Section , to make payment of the balance of any sum remaining in such fund to the Government of the Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia to the extent required under Article 1 ( C ) of the Yugoslav Claims Agreement of 1948 . 
The Secretary of State shall certify to the Secretary of the Treasury the total cost of adjudication , not borne by the claimants , attributable to the Yugoslav Claims Agreement of 1948 . 
Such certification shall be final and conclusive and shall not be subject to review by any other official or department , agency , or establishment of the United States . 
Sec. 9 . 
There is hereby authorized to be appropriated , out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated , such sums as may be necessary to enable the Commission to carry out its functions under this Title . 
Mr. Dooley . 
Mr. Speaker , for several years now the commuter railroads serving our large metropolitan areas have found it increasingly difficult to render the kind of service our expanding population wants and is entitled to have . 
The causes of the decline of the commuter railroads are many and complex -- high taxes , losses of revenue to Government subsidized highway and air carriers , to name but two . 
And the solutions to the problems of the commuter lines have been equally varied , ranging all the way from Government ownership to complete discontinuance of this important service . 
There have been a number of sound plans proposed . 
But none of these has been implemented . 
Instead we have stood idly by , watched our commuter railroad service decline , and have failed to offer a helping hand . 
Though the number of people flowing in and out of our metropolitan areas each day has increased tremendously since World War 2 , , total annual rail commutation dropped 124 million for 1947 to 1957 . 
Nowhere has this decline been more painfully evident than in the New York City area . 
Here the New York Central Railroad , one of the Nation's most important carriers , has alone lost 47.6 percent of its passengers since 1949 . 
At this time of crisis in our Nation's commuter railroads , a new threat to the continued operations of the New York Central has appeared in the form of the Chesapeake & Ohio Railroad's proposal for control of the Baltimore & Ohio railroads . 
The New York Central has pointed out that this control , if approved by the Interstate Commerce Commission , would give the combined C. & O. - B. & O. Railroad a total of 185 points served in common with the New York Central . 
Not only is this kind of duplication wasteful , but it gives the combined system the ability to take freight traffic away from the New York Central and other railroads serving the area . 
The New York Central notes : `` The freight traffic most susceptible to raiding by the C. & O. - B. & O. provides the backbone of Central's revenues . 
These revenues make it possible to provide essential freight and passenger service over the entire New York Central system as well as the New York area commuter and terminal freight services . 
If these services are to be maintained , the New York Central must have the revenues to make them possible '' . 
The New York Central today handles 60 percent of all southbound commuter traffic coming into New York City . 
This is a $14 million operation involving 3,500 employees who work on commuter traffic exclusively . 
A blow to this phase of the Central's operations would have serious economic consequences not only to the railroad itself , but to the 40,000 people per day who are provided with efficient , reasonably priced transportation in and out of the city . 
`` There is a workable alternative to this potentially dangerous and harmful C. & O. - B. & O. merger scheme '' -- The Central has pointed out . 
`` The logic of creating a strong , balanced , competitive two-system railroad service in the East is so obvious that B. & O. was publicly committed to the approach outlined here . 
Detailed studies of the plan were well underway . 
Though far from completion , these studies indicated beyond a doubt that savings would result which would be of unprecedented benefit to the railroads concerned , their investors , their customers , their users , and to the public at large . 
Then , abandoning the studies in the face of their promising outlook for all concerned , B. & O. entered on-again-off-again negotiations with C. & O. which resulted in the present situation . 
In the light of the facts at hand , however , New York Central intends to pursue the objective of helping to create a healthy two-system eastern railroad structure in the public interest '' . 
The Interstate Commerce Commission will commence its deliberations on the proposed C. & O. - B. & O. merger on June 18 . 
Obviously , the Interstate Commerce Commission will not force the New York Central to further curtail its commuter operations by giving undue competitive advantages to the lines that wish to merge . 
However , there is a more profound consideration to this proposed merger than profit and loss . 
That is , will it serve the long-range public interest ? 
For the past 40 years Congress has advocated a carefully planned , balanced and competitive railway system . 
We must ask ourselves which of the two alternatives will help the commuter -- the two-way B. & O. - C. & O. merger , or the three-way New York Central - B. & O. - C. & O. merger . 
Which will serve not only the best interest of the stockholders , but the interests of all the traveling public ? 
Mr. Lindsay . 
Mr. Speaker , I rise today to pay tribute to a great newspaper , the New York Times , on the occasion of a major change in its top executive command . 
Arthur Hays Sulzberger has been a distinguished publisher of this distinguished newspaper and it is fitting that we take due notice of his major contribution to American journalism on the occasion of his retirement . 
I am pleased to note that Mr. Sulzberger will continue to serve as chairman of the board of the New York Times . 
Mr. Sulzberger's successor as publisher is Mr. Orvil E. Dryfoos , who is president of the New York Times Co. , and who has been with the Times since 1942 . 
Mr. Dryfoos' outstanding career as a journalist guarantees that the high standards which have made the Times one of the world's great newspapers will be maintained . 
I am also pleased to note that Mr. John B. Oakes , a member of the Times staff since 1946 , has been appointed as editorial page editor . 
Mr. Oakes succeeds Charles Merz , editor since 1938 , who now becomes editor emeritus . 
I should like at this time , Mr. Speaker , to pay warm tribute to Arthur Hays Sulzberger and Charles Merz on the occasion of their retirement from distinguished careers in American journalism . 
My heartiest congratulations go to their successors , Orvil E. Dryfoos and John B. Oakes , who can be counted upon to sustain the illustrious tradition of the New York Times . 
The people of the 17th District of New York , and I as their Representative in Congress , take great pride in the New York Times as one of the great and authoritative newspapers of the world . 
Mr. Stratton . 
Mr. Speaker , in my latest newsletter to my constituents I urged the imposition of a naval blockade of Cuba as the only effective method of preventing continued Soviet armaments from coming into the Western Hemisphere in violation of the Monroe Doctrine . 
Yesterday , I had the privilege of reading a thoughtful article in the U.S. News & World Report of May 8 which discussed this type of action in more detail , including both its advantages and its disadvantages . 
Under leave to extend my remarks , I include the relevant portion of my newsletter , together with the text of the article from the U.S. News & World Report : `` your Congressman , Samuel S. Stratton , reports from Washington , May 1 , 1961 . 
Cuban S.S.R. : Whatever may have been the setbacks resulting from the unsuccessful attempt of the Cuban rebels to establish a beachhead on the Castro-held mainland last week , there was at least one positive benefit , and that was the clear-cut revelation to the whole world of the complete conversion of Cuba into a Russian-dominated military base . 
In fact , one of the major reasons for the failure of the ill-starred expedition appears to have been a lack of full information on the extent to which Cuba has been getting this Russian military equipment . 
Somehow , the pictures and stories of Soviet T-34 tanks on Cuban beaches and Russian Mig jet fighters strafing rebel troops has brought home to all of us the stark , blunt truth of what it means to have a Russian military base 90 miles away from home . 
Russian tanks and planes in Cuba jeopardize the security of the United States , violate the Monroe Doctrine , and threaten the security of every other Latin American republic . 
Once the full extent of this Russian military penetration of Cuba was clear , President Kennedy announced we would take whatever action was appropriate to prevent this , even if we had to go it alone . 
But the Latin American republics who have been rather inclined to drag their feet on taking action against Castro also reacted swiftly last week by finally throwing Cuba off the Inter-American Defense Board . 
For years the United States had been trying to get these countries to exclude Castro's representative from secret military talks . 
But it took the pictures of the Migs and the T-34 tanks to do the job . 
There is a new atmosphere of urgency in Washington this week . 
You can see it , for example , in the extensive efforts President Kennedy has made to enlist solid bipartisan support for his actions toward both Cuba and Laos ; ; efforts , as I see it , which are being directed , by the way , toward support for future actions , not for those already past . 
What the next move will be only time , of course , will tell . 
Personally , I think we ought to set up an immediate naval blockade of Cuba . 
We simply can't tolerate further Russian weapons , including the possibility of long-range nuclear missiles , being located in Cuba . 
Obviously , we can't stop them from coming in , however , just by talk . 
A naval blockade would be thoroughly in line with the Monroe Doctrine , would be a relatively simple operation to carry out , and would bring an abrupt end to Soviet penetration of our hemisphere '' . 
`` ( from U.s. News & World Report , May 8 , 1961 ) next for Cuba : an arms blockade ? 
Look at Castro now -- cockier than ever with arms and agents to threaten the Americas . 
How can the United States act ? 
Blockade is one answer offered by experts . 
In it they see a way to isolate Cuba , stop infiltration , maybe finish Castro , too . 
This is the question now facing President Kennedy : How to put a stop to the Soviet buildup in Cuba and to Communist infiltration of this hemisphere ? 
On April 25 , the White House reported that a total embargo of remaining U.S. trade with Cuba was being considered . 
Its aim : To undermine further Cuba's economy . 
Weaken Castro . 
Another strategy -- bolder and tougher -- was also attracting notice in Washington : a naval and air blockade to cut Cuba off from the world , destroy Castro . 
Blockade , in the view of military and civilian experts , could restore teeth to the Monroe Doctrine . 
It could halt a flood of Communist arms and strategic supplies now reaching Castro . 
It could stop Cuban re-export of guns and propaganda materials to South America . 
It would be the most severe reprisal , short of declared war , that the United States could invoke against Castro . 
It is the strategy of blockade , therefore , that is suddenly at the center of attention of administration officials , Members of Congress , officers in the Pentagon . 
As a possible course of action , it also is the center of debate and is raising many questions . 
Among these questions : what would a Cuba blockade take ? 
Military experts say a tight naval blockade off Cuban ports and at the approaches to Cuban waters would require two naval task forces , each built around an aircraft carrier with a complement of about 100 planes and several destroyers . 
The Navy , on April 25 , announced it is bringing back the carrier Shangri-La from the Mediterranean , increasing to four the number of attack carriers in the vicinity of Cuba . 
More than 36 other big Navy ships are no less than a day's sailing time away . 
To round out the blockading force , submarines would be needed -- to locate , identify and track approaching vessels . 
Land-based radar would help with this task . 
So would radar picket ships . 
A squadron of Navy jets and another of long-range patrol planes would add support to the carrier task forces . 
Three requirements go with a blockade : It must be proclaimed ; ; the blockading force must be powerful enough to enforce it ; ; and it must be enforced without discrimination . 
Once these conditions of international law are met , countries that try to run the blockade do so at their own risk . 
Blockade runners can be stopped -- by gunfire , if necessary -- searched and held , at least temporarily . 
They could be sent to U.S. ports for rulings whether cargo should be confiscated . 
What could a blockade accomplish ? 
Plenty , say the experts . 
In a broad sense , it would reaffirm the Monroe Doctrine by opposing Communist interference in the Western Hemisphere . 
It could , by avoiding direct intervention , provide a short-of-war strategy to meet short-of-war infiltration . 
Primary target would be shipments of tanks , guns , aviation gasoline and ammunition coming from Russia and Czechoslovakia . 
Shipments of arms from Western countries could similarly be seized as contraband . 
In a total blockade , action could also be taken against ships bringing in chemicals , oils , textiles , and even foodstuffs . 
At times , three ships a day from the Soviet bloc are unloading in Cuban ports . 
From its inception in 1920 with the passage of Public Law 236 , 66th Congress , the purpose of the vocational rehabilitation program has been to assist the States , by means of grants-in-aid , to return disabled men and women to productive , gainful employment . 
The authority for the program was renewed several times until the vocational rehabilitation program was made permanent as Title 5 , of the Social Security Act in 1935 . 
Up to this time and for the next eight years , the services provided disabled persons consisted mainly of training , counseling , and placement on a job . 
Recognizing the limitations of such a program , the 78th Congress in 1943 passed P. L. 113 , which broadened the concept of rehabilitation to include the provision of physical restoration services to remove or reduce disabilities , and which revised the financing structure . 
Recent changes . 
Despite the successful rehabilitation of over a half million disabled persons in the first eleven years after 1943 , the existing program was still seen to be inadequate to cope with the nation's backlog of an estimated two million disabled . 
To assist the States , therefore , in rehabilitating handicapped individuals , `` so that they may prepare for and engage in remunerative employment to the extent of their capabilities '' , the 83rd Congress enacted the Vocational Rehabilitation Amendments of 1954 ( P. L. 565 ) . 
These amendments to the Vocational Rehabilitation Act were designed to help provide for more specialized rehabilitation facilities , for more sheltered and `` half-way '' workshops , for greater numbers of adequately trained personnel , for more comprehensive services to individuals ( particularly to the homebound and the blind ) , and for other administrative improvements to increase the program's overall effectiveness . 
Financial aspects . 
Under the law as it existed until 1943 , the Federal Government made grants to the States on the basis of population , matching State expenditures on a 50-50 basis . 
Under P. L. 113 , 78th Congress , the Federal Government assumed responsibility for 100% of necessary State expenditures in connection with administration and the counseling and placement of the disabled , and for 50% of the necessary costs of providing clients with rehabilitation case services . 
Throughout these years , the statutory authorization was for such sums as were necessary to carry out the provisions of the Act . 
The 1954 Amendments completely changed the financing of the vocational rehabilitation program , providing for a three-part grant structure -- for ( 1 ) basic support ; ; ( 2 ) extension and improvement ; ; and ( 3 ) research , demonstrations , training and traineeships for vocational rehabilitation -- and in addition for short-term training and instruction . 
The first part of the new structure -- that for supporting the basic program of vocational rehabilitation services -- is described in this Section . 
Subsequent sections on grants describe the other categories of the grant structure . 
The following table shows , for selected years , the authorizations , appropriations , allotment base , Federal grants to States and State matching funds for this part of the grant program : method of distributing funds description of formula . 
In order to assist the States in maintaining basic vocational rehabilitation services , Section 2 of the amended Act provides that allotments to States for support of such services be based on ( 1 ) need , as measured by a State's population , and ( 2 ) fiscal capacity , as measured by its per capita income . 
The Act further provides for a `` floor '' or minimum allotment , set at the 1954 level , which is called the `` base '' allotment , and a `` ceiling '' or maximum allotment , for each State . 
It stipulates , in addition , that all amounts remaining as a result of imposing the `` ceiling '' , and not used for insuring the `` floor '' , be redistributed to those States still below their maximums . 
These provisions are designed to reflect the differences in wealth and population among the States , with the objective that a vocationally handicapped person have access to needed services regardless of whether he resides in a State with a low or high per capita income or a sparsely or thickly populated State . 
The provisions are also designed to avoid disruption in State programs already in operation , which might otherwise result from the allotment of funds on the basis of wealth and population alone . 
Method of computing allotments . 
The method used in computing the allotments is specifically set forth in the Act . 
The term `` State '' means the several States , the District of Columbia , the Virgin Islands , Guam and Puerto Rico ; ; the term `` United States '' includes the several States and the District of Columbia , and excludes the Virgin Islands , Guam and Puerto Rico , and , prior to 1962 , Alaska and Hawaii . 
The following steps are employed in calculations : 1 . 
For each State ( except Puerto Rico , Guam , the Virgin Islands , and , prior to 1962 , Alaska and Hawaii ) determine average per capita income based on the last three years . 
( See Source of Data , below for per capita income data to be used in this step . 
) 2 . 
Determine the average per capita income for the U. S. based on the last three years . 
( See Source of Data , below , for per capita income data to be used in this step . 
) 3 . 
Determine the ratio of 50% to the average per capita income of the U. S. ( Divide 50 by the result obtained in item 2 above . 
) 4 . 
Determine for each State ( except the Virgin Islands , Guam and Puerto Rico , and , prior to 1962 , Alaska and Hawaii ) that percentage which bears the same ratio to 50% as the particular State's average per capita income bears to the average per capita income of the U. S. . 
( Multiply the result obtained in item 3 above by the result obtained for each State in item 1 above . 
) 5 . 
Determine the particular State's `` allotment percentage '' . 
By law this is 75% for the Virgin Islands , Guam and Puerto Rico . 
( Alaska and Hawaii had fixed allotment percentages in effect prior to fiscal year 1962 . 
) In all other States it is the difference obtained by subtracting from 100 the result obtained in item 4 above ; ; except that no State shall have an allotment percentage less than 33-1/3% nor more than 75% . 
If the resulting difference for the particular State is less or more than these extremes , the State's allotment percentage must be raised or lowered to the appropriate extreme . 
6 . 
Square each State's allotment percentage . 
7 . 
Determine each State's population . 
( See Source of Data , below for population data to be used in this step . 
) 8 . 
Multiply the population of each State by the square of its allotment percentage . 
( Multiply result obtained in item 7 above , by result obtained in item 6 above . 
) 9 . 
Determine the sum of the products obtained in item 8 above , for all the States . 
( For each State , make all computations set forth in items 1 to 8 above , and then add the results obtained for each State in item 8 . 
) 10 . 
Determine the ratio that the amount being allotted is to the sum of the products for all the States . 
( Divide the amount being allotted by the result obtained in item 9 above . 
) 11 . 
Determine the particular State's unadjusted allotment for the particular fiscal year . 
( Multiply the State product in item 8 above by the result obtained in item 10 above . 
) 12 . 
Determine if the particular State's unadjusted allotment ( result obtained in item 11 above ) is greater than its maximum allotment , and if so lower its unadjusted allotment to its maximum allotment . 
( Each State's unadjusted allotment for any fiscal year , which exceeds its minimum allotment described in item 13 below by a percentage greater than one and one-half times the percentage by which the sum being allotted exceeds $23,000,000 , must be reduced by the amount of the excess . 
) 13 . 
Determine if the particular State's unadjusted allotment ( result obtained in item 11 above ) is less than its minimum ( base ) allotment , and if so raise its unadjusted allotment to its minimum allotment . 
Regardless of its unadjusted allotment , each State is guaranteed by law a minimum allotment each year equal to the allotment which it received in fiscal year 1954 -- increased by a uniform percentage of 5.4865771 which brings total 1954 allotments to all States up to $23,000,000 . 
14 . 
The funds recouped by reductions in item 12 above are used : first , to increase the unadjusted allotments to the specified minimum in those States where the unadjusted allotment is less than the minimum allotment ( item 13 above ) ; ; and second , to increase uniformly the allotments to those States whose allotments are below their maximums , with adjustments to prevent the allotment of any State from thereby exceeding its maximum . 
Additional note on allotments . 
For the States which maintain two separate agencies -- one for the vocational rehabilitation of the blind , and one for the rehabilitation of persons other than the blind -- the Act specifies that their minimum ( base ) allotment shall be divided between the two agencies in the same proportion as it was divided in fiscal year 1954 . 
Funds allotted in addition to their minimum allotment are apportioned to the two agencies as they may determine . 
Matching requirements explanation of matching formula . 
As is the case with the allotment provisions for support of vocational rehabilitation services , the matching requirements are also based on a statutory formula . 
Prior to 1960 , in order to provide matching for the minimum ( base ) allotment , State funds had to equal 1954 State funds . 
Prior to and since 1960 the rest of the support allotment is matched at rates related to the fiscal capacity of the State , with a pivot of 40% State ( or 60% Federal ) participation in total program costs . 
The percentage of Federal participation in such costs for any State is referred to in the law as that State's `` Federal share '' . 
For purposes of this explanation , this percentage is referred to as the State's `` unadjusted Federal share '' . 
Beginning in 1960 , the matching requirements for the base allotment are being adjusted ( upward or downward , as required ) 25% a year , so that by 1963 the entire support allotment will be matched on the basis of a 40% pivot State share , with maximum and minimum State shares of 50% and 30% , respectively . 
The pre-1960 rate of Federal participation with respect to any State's base allotment , as well as the adjusted rate in effect during the 1960 - 1962 period , is designated by the statute as that State's `` adjusted Federal Share '' . 
The provisions for determining a State's unadjusted Federal share are designed to reflect the varying financial resources among the States . 
The purpose of the adjusted Federal share relating to the base allotment and of the transition provisions for reaching the unadjusted Federal share is to prevent dislocations from abrupt changes in matching rates . 
Method of computing Federal shares . 
The method used for computing the respective Federal and State shares in total program costs is specifically set forth in the Act . 
The term `` State '' means the several States , the District of Columbia , the Virgin Islands , Guam and Puerto Rico ; ; the term `` United States '' includes the several States and the District of Columbia and excludes the Virgin Islands , Guam and Puerto Rico , and , prior to 1962 , Alaska and Hawaii . 
The following steps are employed in the calculations : 1 . 
For each State ( except the Virgin Islands , Guam , Puerto Rico , and , prior to 1962 , Alaska and Hawaii ) , determine the average per capita income for the last three years . 
( the same amount used in item 1 under Method Of Computing Allotments , above . 
) 2 . 
Determine the average per capita income for the United States for the last three years . 
( The same amount used in item 2 under Method Of Computing Allotments , above . 
) 3 . 
Determine the ratio of 40% to the average per capita income of the United States . 
( Divide 40 by the amount used in item 2 above . 
) 4 . 
Determine for each State ( except the Virgin Islands , Guam , Puerto Rico , and , prior to 1962 , Alaska and Hawaii ) , that percentage which bears the same ration to 40% as the particular State's average per capita income bears to the average per capita income of the United States . 
( Multiply the result obtained in item 3 above by the amount used for each State in item 1 above . 
) 5 . 
Determine the particular State's `` Federal Share '' . 
By law this is 70% for the Virgin Islands , Guam and Puerto Rico . 
( Alaska and Hawaii had fixed Federal share percentages in effect prior to fiscal year 1962 . 
) In all other States it is the difference obtained by subtracting from 100 the result obtained in item 4 above ; ; except that no State shall have a Federal share less than 50% nor more than 70% . 
If the resulting difference for the particular State is less or more than these extremes , the State's Federal share must be raised or lowered to the appropriate extreme . 
At the entrance side of the shelter , each roof beam is rested on the inside 4 inches of the block wall . 
The outside 4-inch space is filled by mortaring blocks on edge . 
The wooden bracing between the roof beams is placed flush with the inside of the wall . 
Mortar is poured between this bracing and the 4-inch blocks on edge to complete the wall thickness for radiation shielding . 
( For details see inset , fig. 5 . 
) The first one or two roof boards ( marked `` E '' in fig. 6 ) are slipped into place across the roof beams , from outside the shelter . 
These boards are nailed to the roof beams by reaching up through the open space between the beams , from inside the shelter . 
Concrete blocks are passed between the beams and put on the boards . 
The roof blocks are in two layers and are not mortared together . 
Work on the roof continues in this way . 
The last roof boards are covered with blocks from outside the shelter . 
When the roof blocks are all in place , the final rows of wall blocks are mortared into position . 
The structure is complete . 
( See fig. 7 . 
) Building plans are on page 21 . 
Solid concrete blocks , relatively heavy and dense , are used for this shelter . 
These blocks are sold in various sizes so it seldom is necessary to cut a block to fit . 
Solid blocks are recommended because hollow blocks would have to be filled with concrete to give effective protection . 
Bricks are an alternative . 
If they are used , the walls and roof should be 10 inches thick to give the same protection as the 8-inch solid concrete blocks . 
The illustrations in fig. 8 show how to lay a concrete block wall . 
More detailed instructions may be obtained from your local building supply houses and craftsmen . 
Other sources of information include the National Concrete Masonry Association , 38 South Dearborn Street , Chicago , Ill. , the Portland Cement Association , 33 West Grand Avenue , Chicago , Ill. , and the Structural Clay Products Association , Washington , D.C. . 
Aboveground double-wall shelter An outdoor , aboveground fallout shelter also may be built with concrete blocks . 
( See fig. 9 , double-wall shelter . 
) Most people would have to hire a contractor to build this shelter . 
Plans are on pages 22 and 23 . 
This shelter could be built in regions where water or rock is close to the surface , making it impractical to build an underground shelter . 
Two walls of concrete blocks are constructed at least 20 inches apart . 
The space between them is filled with pit-run gravel or earth . 
The walls are held together with metal ties placed in the wet mortar as the walls are built . 
The roof shown here ( fig. 9 ) is a 6-inch slab of reinforced concrete , covered with at least 20 inches of pit-run gravel . 
An alternate roof , perhaps more within do-it-yourself reach , could be constructed of heavy wooden roof beams , overlaid with boards and waterproofing . 
It would have to be covered with at least 28 inches of pit-run gravel . 
The materials for a double-wall shelter would cost about $700 . 
Contractors' charges would be additional . 
The shelter would provide almost absolute fallout protection . 
Pre-shaped metal shelter Pre-shaped corrugated metal sections or pre-cast concrete can be used for shelters either above or below ground . 
These are particularly suitable for regions where water or rock is close to the surface . 
They form effective fallout shelters when mounded over with earth , as shown in figure 10 . 
Materials for this shelter would cost about $700 . 
A contractor probably would be required to help build it . 
His charges would be added to the cost of materials . 
This shelter , as shown on page 24 , would provide almost absolute protection from fallout radiation . 
An alternate hatchway entrance , shown on page 25 , would reduce the cost of materials $50 to $100 . 
The National Lumber Manufacturers Association , Washington , D. C. , is developing plans to utilize specially treated lumber for underground shelter construction . 
The Structural Clay Products Institute , Washington , D.C. , is working to develop brick and clay products suitable for shelter construction . 
Underground concrete shelter An underground reinforced concrete shelter can be built by a contractor for about $1,000 to $1,500 , depending on the type of entrance . 
The shelter shown would provide almost absolute fallout protection . 
The illustration ( fig. 11 ) shows this shelter with the roof at ground level and mounded over . 
The same shelter could be built into an embankment or below ground level . 
Plans for the shelter , with either a stairway or hatchway entrance , are shown on pages 26 and 27 . 
Another type of shelter which gives excellent fallout protection can be built as an added room to the basement of a home under construction . 
It would add about $500 to the total cost of the home . 
The shelter illustrated in figure 12 is based on such a room built in a new home in the Washington , D.C. area in the Spring of 1959 . 
Important considerations common to each type of shelter are : 1 . 
Arrangement of the entrance . 
2 . 
Ventilation . 
3 . 
Radio reception . 
4 . 
Lighting . 
The entrance must have at least one right-angle turn . 
Radiation scatters somewhat like light . 
Some will go around a corner . 
The rest continues in a straight line . 
Therefore , sharp turns in a shelter entrance will reduce radiation intensity inside the shelter . 
Ventilation is provided in a concrete block basement shelter by vents in the wall and by the open entrance . 
A blower may be installed to increase comfort . 
A blower is essential for the double-wall shelter and for the underground shelters . 
It should provide not less than 5 cubic feet per minute of air per person . 
Vent pipes also are necessary ( as shown in figs. 9 , 10 , and 11 ) , but filters are not . 
Radio reception is cut down by the shielding necessary to keep out radiation . 
As soon as the shelter is completed a radio reception check must be made . 
It probably will be necessary to install an outside antenna , particularly to receive CONELRAD broadcasts . 
Lighting is an important consideration . 
Continuous low-level lighting may be provided in the shelter by means of a 4-cell hot-shot battery to which is wired a 150-milliampere flashlight-type bulb . 
Tests have shown that such a device , with a fresh battery , will furnish light continuously for at least 10 days . 
With a spare battery , a source of light for 2 weeks or more would be assured . 
A flashlight or electric lantern also should be available for those periods when a brighter light is needed . 
There should be a regular electrical outlet in the shelter as power may continue in many areas . 
Other considerations . 
-- If there are outside windows in the basement corner where you build a shelter , they should be shielded as shown in the Appendix , page 29 . 
Other basement windows should be blocked when an emergency threatens . 
Basement walls that project above the ground should be shielded as shown in the Appendix , page 29 . 
In these shelters the entrance should be not more than 2 feet wide . 
Bunks , or materials to build them , may have to be put inside the enclosure before the shelter walls are completed . 
The basement or belowground shelters also will serve for tornado or hurricane protection . 
3 . 
Living in a shelter The radioactivity of fallout decays rapidly at first . 
Forty-nine hours after an atomic burst the radiation intensity is only about 1 percent of what it was an hour after the explosion . 
But the radiation may be so intense at the start that one percent may be extremely dangerous . 
Therefore , civil defense instructions received over CONELRAD or by other means should be followed . 
A battery-powered radio is essential . 
Radiation instruments suitable for home use are available , and would be of value in locating that portion of the home which offers the best protection against fallout radiation . 
There is a possibility that battery-powered radios with built-in radiation meters may become available . 
One instrument thus would serve both purposes . 
Your local civil defense will gather its own information and will receive broad information from State and Federal sources . 
It will tell you as soon as possible : How long to stay in your shelter ; ; How soon you may go outdoors ; ; How long you may stay outside . 
You should be prepared to stay in your shelter full time for at least several days and to make it your home for 14 days or longer . 
A checklist in the Appendix ( ( page 30 ) tells what is needed . 
Families with children will have particular problems . 
They should provide for simple recreation . 
There should be a task for everyone and these tasks should be rotated . 
Part of the family should be sleeping while the rest is awake . 
To break the monotony it may be necessary to invent tasks that will keep the family busy . 
Records such as diaries can be kept . 
The survival of the family will depend largely on information received by radio . 
A record should be kept of the information and instructions , including the time and date of broadcast . 
Family rationing probably will be necessary . 
Blowers should be operated periodically on a regular schedule . 
There will come a time in a basement shelter when the radiation has decayed enough to allow use of the whole basement . 
However , as much time as possible should be spent within the shelter to hold radiation exposure to a minimum . 
The housekeeping problems of living in a shelter will begin as soon as the shelter is occupied . 
Food , medical supplies , utensils , and equipment , if not already stored in the shelter , must be quickly gathered up and carried into it . 
After the family has settled in the shelter , the housekeeping rules should be spelled out by the adult in charge . 
Sanitation in the confines of the family shelter will require much thought and planning . 
Provision for emergency toilet facilities and disposal of human wastes will be an unfamiliar problem . 
A covered container such as a kitchen garbage pail might do as a toilet . 
A 10-gallon garbage can , with a tightly fitting cover , could be used to keep the wastes until it is safe to leave the shelter . 
Water rationing will be difficult and should be planned carefully . 
A portable electric heater is advisable for shelters in cold climates . 
It would take the chill from the shelter in the beginning . 
Even if the electric power fails after an attack , any time that the heater has been used will make the shelter that much more comfortable . 
Body heat in the close quarters will help keep up the temperature . 
Warm clothing and bedding , of course , are essential . 
Open-flame heating or cooking should be avoided . 
A flame would use up air . 
Some families already have held weekend rehearsals in their home shelters to learn the problems and to determine for themselves what supplies they would need . 
4 . 
If an attack finds you without a prepared shelter Few areas , if any , are as good as prepared shelters but they are worth knowing about . 
A family dwelling without a basement provides some natural shielding from fallout radiation . 
On the ground floor the radiation would be about half what it is outside . 
The best protection would be on the ground floor in the central part of the house . 
A belowground basement can cut the fallout radiation to one-tenth of the outside level . 
The safest place is the basement corner least exposed to windows and deepest below ground . 
If there is time after the warning , the basement shielding could be improved substantially by blocking windows with bricks , dirt , books , magazines , or other heavy material . 
5 . 
Shelter in apartment buildings Large apartment buildings of masonry or concrete provide better natural shelter than the usual family dwellings . 
In general , such apartments afford more protection than smaller buildings because their walls are thick and there is more space . 
The central area of the ground floor of a heavily constructed apartment building , with concrete floors , should provide more fallout protection than the ordinary basement of a family dwelling . 
The basement of such an apartment building may provide as much natural protection as the specially constructed concrete block shelter recommended for the basement of a family dwelling . 
The Federal Government is aiding local governments in several places to survey residential , commercial and industrial buildings to determine what fallout protection they would provide , and for how many people . 
The problem for the city apartment dweller is primarily to plan the use of existing space . 
Such planning will require the cooperation of other occupants and of the apartment management . 
A former Du Pont official became a General Motors vice president and set about maximizing Du Pont's share of the General Motors market . 
Lines of communications were established between the two companies and several Du Pont products were actively promoted . 
Within a few years various Du Pont manufactured items were filling the entire requirements of from four to seven of General Motors' eight operating divisions . 
The Fisher Body division , long controlled by the Fisher brothers under a voting trust even though General Motors owned a majority of its stock , followed an independent course for many years , but by 1947 and 1948 `` resistance had collapsed '' and its purchases from Du Pont `` compared favorably '' with purchases by other General Motors divisions . 
Competitors came to receive higher percentage of General Motors business in later years , but it is `` likely '' that this trend stemmed `` at least in part '' from the needs of General Motors outstripping Du Pont's capacity . 
`` The fact that sticks out in this voluminous record is that the bulk of Du Pont's production has always supplied the largest part of the requirements of the one customer in the automobile industry connected to Du Pont by a stock interest . 
The inference is overwhelming that Du Pont's commanding position was promoted by its stock interest and was not gained solely on competitive merit '' . 
353 U. S. , at 605 . 
This Court agreed with the trial court `` that considerations of price , quality and service were not overlooked by either Du Pont or General Motors '' . 
353 U. S. , at 606 . 
However , it determined that neither this factor , nor `` the fact that all concerned in high executive posts in both companies acted honorably and fairly , each in the honest conviction that his actions were in the best interests of his own company and without any design to overreach anyone , including Du Pont's competitors '' , outweighed the Government's claim for relief . 
This claim , as submitted to the District Court and dismissed by it , 126 F.Supp.235 , alleged violation not only of 7 of the Clayton Act , but also of 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act . 
The latter provisions proscribe any contract , combination , or conspiracy in restraint of interstate or foreign trade , and monopolization of , or attempts , combinations , or conspiracies to monopolize , such trade . 
However , this Court put to one side without consideration the Government's appeal from the dismissal of its Sherman Act allegations . 
It rested its decision solely on 7 , which reads in pertinent part : `` No corporation engaged in commerce shall acquire , directly or indirectly , the whole or any part of the stock or other share capital of another corporation engaged also in commerce , where the effect of such acquisition may be to substantially lessen competition between the corporation whose stock is so acquired and the corporation making the acquisition , or to restrain such commerce in any section or community , or tend to create a monopoly of any line of commerce . 
This section shall not apply to corporations purchasing such stock solely for investment and not using the same by voting or otherwise to bring about , or in attempting to bring about , the substantial lessening of competition . 
'' The purpose of this provision was thus explained in the Court's opinion : `` Section 7 is designed to arrest in its incipiency not only the substantial lessening of competition from the acquisition by one corporation of the whole or any part of the stock of a competing corporation , but also to arrest in their incipiency restraints or monopolies in a relevant market which , as a reasonable probability , appear at the time of suit likely to result from the acquisition by one corporation of all or any part of the stock of any other corporation . 
The section is violated whether or not actual restraints or monopolies , or the substantial lessening of competition , have occurred or are intended . 
'' 353 U. S. , at 589 . 
Thus , a finding of conspiracy to restrain trade or attempt to monopolize was excluded from the Court's decision . 
Indeed , as already noted , the Court proceeded on the assumption that the executives involved in the dealings between Du Pont and General Motors acted `` honorably and fairly '' and exercised their business judgment only to serve what they deemed the best interests of their own companies . 
This , however , did not bar finding that Du Pont had become pre-eminent as a supplier of automotive fabrics and finishes to General Motors ; ; that these products constituted a `` line of commerce '' within the meaning of the Clayton Act ; ; that General Motors' share of the market for these products was substantial ; ; and that competition for this share of the market was endangered by the financial relationship between the two concerns : `` The statutory policy of fostering free competition is obviously furthered when no supplier has an advantage over his competitors from an acquisition of his customer's stock likely to have the effects condemned by the statute . 
We repeat , that the test of a violation of 7 is whether , at the time of suit , there is a reasonable probability that the acquisition is likely to result in the condemned restraints . 
The conclusion upon this record is inescapable that such likelihood was proved as to this acquisition . 
'' 353 U. S. , at 607 . 
On the basis of the findings which led to this conclusion , the Court remanded the case to the District Court to determine the appropriate relief . 
The sole guidance given the Court for discharging the task committed to it was this : `` The judgment must therefore be reversed and the cause remanded to the District Court for a determination , after further hearing , of the equitable relief necessary and appropriate in the public interest to eliminate the effects of the acquisition offensive to the statute . 
The District Courts , in the framing of equitable decrees , are clothed ' with large discretion to model their judgements to fit the exigencies of the particular case . 
International Salt Co. v. United States , 332 U. S. 392 , 400-401 '' . 
353 U. S. , at 607-608 . 
This brings us to the course of the proceedings in the District Court . 
2 . 
This Court's judgment was filed in the District Court on July 18 , 1957 . 
The first pretrial conference -- held to appoint amici curiae to represent the interest of the stockholders of Du Pont and General Motors and to consider the procedure to be followed in the subsequent hearings -- took place on September 25 , 1957 . 
At the outset , the Government's spokesman explained that counsel for the Government and for Du Pont had already held preliminary discussions with a view to arriving at a relief plan that both sides could recommend to the court . 
Du Pont , he said , had proposed disenfranchisement of its General Motors stock along with other restrictions on the Du Pont - General Motors relationship . 
The Government , deeming these suggestions inadequate , had urged that any judgment include divestiture of Du Pont's shares of General Motors . 
Counsel for the Government invited Du Pont's views on this proposal before recommending a specific program , but stated that if the court desired , or if counsel for Du Pont thought further discussion would not be profitable , the Government was prepared to submit a plan within thirty days . 
Counsel for Du Pont indicated a preference for the submission of detailed plans by both sides at an early date . 
No previous antitrust case , he said , had involved interests of such magnitude or presented such complex problems of relief . 
The submission of detailed plans would place the issues before the court more readily than would discussion of divestiture or disenfranchisement in the abstract . 
The Court adopted this procedure with an appropriate time schedule for carrying it out . 
The Government submitted its proposed decree on October 25 , 1957 . 
The plan called for divestiture by Du Pont of its 63,000,000 shares of General Motors stock by equal annual distributions to its stockholders , as a dividend , over a period of ten years . 
Christiana Securities Company and Delaware Realty & Investment Company , major stockholders in Du Pont , and the stockholders of Delaware were dealt with specially by provisions requiring the annual sale by a trustee , again over a ten-year period , of Du Pont's General Motors stock allocable to them , as well as any General Motors stock which Christiana and Delaware owned outright . 
If , in the trustee's judgment , `` reasonable market conditions '' did not prevail during any given year , he was to be allowed to petition the court for an extension of time within the ten-year period . 
In addition , the right to vote the General Motors stock held by Du Pont was to be vested in Du Pont's stockholders , other than Christiana and Delaware and the stockholders of Delaware ; ; Du Pont , Christiana , and Delaware were to be enjoined from acquiring stock in or exercising control over General Motors ; ; Du Pont , Christiana , and Delaware were to be prohibited to have any director or officer in common with General Motors , and vice versa ; ; and General Motors and Du Pont were to be ordered to terminate any agreement that provided for the purchase by General Motors of any specified percentage of its requirements of any Du Pont manufactured product , or for the grant of exclusive patent rights , or for a grant by General Motors to Du Pont of a preferential right to make or sell any chemical discovery of General Motors , or for the maintenance of any joint commercial enterprise by the two companies . 
On motion of the Amici Curiae , the court directed that a ruling be obtained from the Commissioner of Internal Revenue as to the federal income tax consequences of the Government's plan . 
On May 9 , 1958 , the Commissioner announced his rulings . 
The annual dividends paid to Du Pont stockholders in shares of General Motors stock would be taxable as ordinary income to the extent of Du Pont's earnings and profits . 
The measure , for federal income tax purposes , of the dividend to individual stockholders would be the fair market value of the shares at the time of each annual distribution . 
In the case of taxpaying corporate stockholders , the measure would be the lesser of the fair market value of the shares or Du Pont's tax basis for them , which is approximately $2.09 per share . 
The forced sale of the General Motors stock owned by or allocable to Christiana , Delaware , and the stockholders of Delaware , and deposited with the trustee , would result in a tax to those parties at the capital gains rate . 
Du Pont's counterproposal was filed on May 14 , 1958 . 
Under its plan Du Pont would retain its General Motors shares but be required to pass on to its stockholders the right to vote those shares . 
Christiana and Delaware would , in turn , be required to pass on the voting rights to the General Motors shares allocable to them to their own stockholders . 
Du Pont would be enjoined from having as a director , officer , or employee anyone who was simultaneously an officer or employee of General Motors , and no director , officer , or employee of Du Pont could serve as a director of General Motors without court approval . 
Du Pont would be denied the right to acquire any additional General Motors stock except through General Motors' distributions of stock or subscription rights to its stockholders . 
On June 6 , 1958 , General Motors submitted its objections to the Government's proposal . 
It argued , inter alia , that a divestiture order would severely depress the market value of the stock of both General Motors and Du Pont , with consequent serious loss and hardship to hundreds of thousands of innocent investors , among them thousands of small trusts and charitable institutions ; ; that there would be a similar decline in the market values of other automotive and chemical stocks , with similar losses to the stockholders of those companies ; ; that the tremendous volume of General Motors stock hanging over the market for ten years would hamper the efforts of General Motors and other automobile manufacturers to raise equity capital ; ; and that all this would have a serious adverse effect on the entire stock market and on general business activity . 
General Motors comprehensively contended that the Government plan would not be `` in the public interest '' as required by the mandate of this Court . 
The decrees proposed by the amici curiae were filed in August of 1958 . 
These plans , like Du Pont's , contained provisions for passing the vote on Du Pont's General Motors shares on to the ultimate stockholders of Du Pont , Christiana , and Delaware , except that officers and directors of the three companies , their spouses , and other people living in their households , as well as other specified persons , were to be totally disenfranchised . 
Both plans also prohibited common directors , officers , or employees between Du Pont , Christiana , and Delaware , on the one hand , and General Motors on the other . 
It is not a medieval mental quirk or an attitude `` unnourished by sense '' to believe that husbands and wives should not be subjected to such a risk , or that such a possibility should not be permitted to endanger the confidentiality of the marriage relationship . 
While it is easy enough to ridicule Hawkins' pronouncement in Pleas Of The Crown from a metaphysical point of view , the concept of the `` oneness '' of a married couple may reflect an abiding belief that the communion between husband and wife is such that their actions are not always to be regarded by the criminal law as if there were no marriage . 
By making inroads in the name of law enforcement into the protection which Congress has afforded to the marriage relationship , the Court today continues in the path charted by the recent decision in Wyatt v. United States , 362 U.S. 525 , where the Court held that , under the circumstances of that case , a wife could be compelled to testify against her husband over her objection . 
One need not waver in his belief in virile law enforcement to insist that there are other things in American life which are also of great importance , and to which even law enforcement must accommodate itself . 
One of these is the solidarity and the confidential relationship of marriage . 
The Court's opinion dogmatically asserts that the husband-wife conspiracy doctrine does not in fact protect this relationship , and that hence the doctrine `` enthrones an unreality into a rule of law '' . 
I am not easily persuaded that a rule accepted by so many people for so many centuries can be so lightly dismissed . 
But in any event , I submit that the power to depose belongs to Congress , not to this Court . 
I dissent . 
Petitioner , who claims to be a conscientious objector , was convicted of violating 12a of the Universal Military Training and Service Act by refusing to be inducted into the armed forces . 
He claims that he was denied due process of law in violation of the Fifth Amendment , because ( 1 ) at a hearing before a hearing officer of the Department of Justice , he was not permitted to rebut statements attributed to him by the local board , and ( 2 ) at the trial , he was denied the right to have the hearing officer's report and the original report of the Federal Bureau of Investigation as to his claim . 
Held : On the record in this case , the administrative procedures prescribed by the Act were fully complied with ; ; petitioner was not denied due process ; ; and his conviction is sustained . 
Pp. 60-66 . 
( A ) Petitioner was not denied due process in the administrative proceedings , because the statement in question was in his file , to which he had access , and he had opportunities to rebut it both before the hearing officer of the Department of Justice and before the appeal board . 
Pp. 62-63 . 
( B ) Petitioner was not entitled to have the hearing officer's notes and report , especially since he failed to show any particular need for them and he did have a copy of the Department of Justice's recommendation to the appeal board . 
Pp. 63-64 . 
( C ) Petitioner was not entitled , either in the administrative hearing at the Department of Justice or at his trial , to inspect the original report of the Federal Bureau of Investigation , since he was furnished a resume of it , did not challenge its accuracy , and showed no particular need for the original report . 
Pp. 64-66 . 
Haydn C. Covington argued the cause and filed a brief for petitioner . 
Daniel M. Friedman argued the cause for the United States . 
On the brief were Solicitor General Rankin , Assistant Attorney General Wilkey , Beatrice Rosenberg and J. F. Bishop . 
Mr. Justice Clark delivered the opinion of the Court . 
This is a prosecution for refusal to be inducted into the armed services , in violation of the provisions of the Universal Military Training and Service Act , 62 Stat. 604,622 , 50 , U.S.C. App. Aj 462 ( A ) . 
Petitioner , who claims to be a conscientious objector , contends that he was denied due process , both in the proceedings before a hearing officer of the Department of Justice and at trial . 
He says that he was not permitted to rebut before the hearing officer statements attributed to him by the local board , and , further , that he was denied at trial the right to have the Department of Justice hearing officer's report and the original report of the Federal Bureau of Investigation as to his claim -- all in violation of the Fifth Amendment . 
The trial judge decided that the administrative procedures of the Act were fully complied with and refused to require the production of such documents . 
Petitioner was found guilty and sentenced to 15 months' imprisonment . 
The Court of Appeals affirmed . 
269 F. 2d 613 . 
We granted certiorari in view of the importance of the questions in the administration of the Act . 
361 U. S. 899 . 
We have concluded that petitioner's claims are controlled by the rationale of Gonzales v. United States , 348 U.S. 407 ( 1955 ) , and United States v. Nugent , 346 U.S. 1 ( 1953 ) , and therefore affirm the judgment . 
Petitioner registered with Local Board No. 9 , Boulder , Colorado , on March 17 , 1952 . 
His answers to the classification questionnaire reflected that he was a minister of Jehovah's Witnesses , employed at night by a sugar producer . 
He claimed 4-d classification as a minister of religion , devoting a minimum of 100 hours a month to preaching . 
On November 13 , 1952 , he was classified in Class 1-a . 
On November 22 , 1952 , he wrote the Board , protesting this classification . 
He again stated that he was `` a regular minister '' ; ; that he was `` devoting an average of 100 hours a month to actual preaching publicly '' , in addition to 50 to 75 hours in other ministerial duties , and that he opposed war in any form . 
Thereafter he was classified 1-o . 
On April 1 , 1953 , after some six months of full-time `` pioneering '' , petitioner discontinued devoting 100 hours a month to preaching , but failed to so notify his local board . 
In a periodic review , the local board on July 30 , 1953 , reclassified him 1-a and upheld this classification after a personal appearance by petitioner , because of his willingness to kill in defense of his church and home . 
Upon administrative approval of the reclassification , he was ordered to report for induction on June 11 , 1956 , but failed to do so . 
He was not prosecuted , however , and his case was subsequently reopened , in the light of Sicurella v. United States , 348 U.S. 385 ( 1955 ) . 
He was again reclassified 1-a by the local board . 
There followed a customary Department of Justice hearing , at which petitioner appeared . 
In his report to the Attorney General , the hearing officer suggested that the petitioner be exempt only from combatant training and service . 
On March 21 , 1957 , however , the Department recommended approval of the 1-a classification . 
Its ground for this recommendation was that , while petitioner claimed before the local board August 17 , 1956 ( as evidenced by its memorandum in his file of that date ) , that he was devoting 100 hours per month to actual preaching , the headquarters of the Jehovah's Witnesses reported that he was no longer doing so and , on the contrary , had relinquished both his Pioneer and Bible Student Servant positions . 
It reported that he now devoted only some 6-1/2 hours per month to public preaching and from 20 to 25 hours per month to church activities . 
His claim was therefore `` so highly exaggerated '' , the Department concluded , that it `` cast doubt upon his veracity and , consequently , upon his sincerity and good faith '' . 
The appeal board furnished petitioner a copy of the recommendation . 
In his answer thereto , he advised the Board that he had made no such statement in 1956 , and asserted that his only claim to `` pioneering '' was in 1952 . 
The appeal board , however , unanimously concurred in the Department's recommendation . 
Upon return of the file to the local board , petitioner was again ordered to report for induction and this prosecution followed his failure to do so . 
Petitioner first contends that the Department denied him procedural due process by not giving him timely opportunity , before its final recommendation to the appeal board , to answer the statement of the local board as to his claim of devoting 100 hours to actual preaching . 
But the statement of the local board attributing this claim to petitioner was in his file . 
He admitted that he knew it was open to him at all times , and he could have rebutted it before the hearing officer . 
This he failed to do , asserting that he did not know it to be in his file . 
Apparently he never took the trouble to find out . 
Nevertheless he had ample opportunity to contest the statement before the appeal board . 
After the recommendation of the Department is forwarded to the appeal board , that is the appropriate place for a registrant to lodge his denial . 
This he did . 
We found in Gonzales v. United States , supra , that this was the controlling reason why copies of the recommendation should be furnished a registrant . 
We said there that it was necessary `` that a registrant be given an opportunity to rebut ( the Department's ) recommendation when it comes to the Appeal Board , the agency with the ultimate responsibility for classification '' . 
348 U.S. , at 412 . 
We fail to see how such procedure resulted in any prejudice to petitioner's contention , which was considered by the appeal board and denied by it . 
As was said in Gonzales , `` it is the Appeal Board which renders the selective service determination considered ' final ' in the courts , not to be overturned unless there is no basis in fact . 
Estep v. United States , 327 U.S. 114 '' . 
348 U. S. , at 412-413 . 
But there are other contentions which might be considered more difficult . 
At his trial , petitioner sought to secure through subpoena duces tecum the longhand notes of the Department's hearing officer , Evensen , as well as his report thereon . 
Petitioner also claimed at trial the right to inspect the original Federal Bureau of Investigation reports to the Department of Justice . 
He alleged no specific procedural errors or evidence withheld ; ; nor did he elaborate just what favorable evidence the Federal Bureau of Investigation reports might disclose . 
Section 6(j) of the Act , as we have held , does require the Department's recommendation to be placed in a registrant's file . 
Gonzales v. United States , supra . 
But there is nothing in the Act requiring the hearing officer's report to be likewise turned over to the registrant . 
While the regulations formerly required that the hearing officer's report be placed in the registrant's file , this requirement was eliminated in 1952 . 
Moreover , the hearing officer's report is but intradepartmental , is directed to the Attorney General and , of course , is not the recommendation of the Department . 
It is not essentially different from a memorandum of an attorney in the Department of Justice , of which the Attorney General receives many , and to which he may give his approval or rejection . 
It is but part of the whole process within the Department that goes into the making of the final recommendation to the appeal board . 
It is also significant that neither this report nor the hearing officer's notes were furnished to the appeal board . 
Hence the petitioner had full opportunity to traverse the only conclusions of the Department on file with the Board . 
Petitioner knew that the Department's recommendation was based not on the hearing officer's report but on the statement of the local board in his file . 
Having had every opportunity to rebut the finding of the local board before both the hearing officer and the appeal board , petitioner cannot now claim that he was denied due process because he did not succeed . 
It appears to us that the same reasoning applies to the production of the hearing officer's report and notes at the trial . 
In addition , petitioner has failed to show any particular need for the report and notes . 
While there are now allegations of the withholding of `` favorable evidence developed at the hearing '' and a denial of a `` full and fair hearing '' , no such claim was made by petitioner at any stage of the administrative process . 
Moreover , his testimony at trial never developed any such facts . 
In the light of these circumstances , as well as the fact that the issue at trial in this respect centered entirely on the Department's recommendation , which petitioner repudiated but which both the appeal board and the courts below found supported by the record , we find no relevancy in the hearing officer's report and notes . 
Finally petitioner says that he was entitled to inspect the FBI report during the proceedings before the hearing officer as well as at the trial . 
He did receive a resume of it -- the same that was furnished the appeal board -- and he made no claim of its inaccuracy . 
Even now no such claim is asserted . 
He bases his present contention on the general right to explore , indicating that he hopes to find some discrepancy in the resume . 
But this is fully answered by United States v. Nugent , supra . 
There we held `` that the statutory scheme for review , within the selective service system , entitles [ conscientious objectors ] to no guarantee that the FBI reports must be produced for their inspection '' . 
346 U.S. , at 5-6 . 
Even if we were not bound by Nugent , petitioner here would not be entitled to the report . 
The recommendation of the Department -- as well as the decision of the appeal board -- was based entirely on the local board file , not on an FBI report . 
Foreign policy in its total context With this enlarged role in mind , I should like to make a few suggestions : What we in the United States do or do not do will make a very large difference in what happens in the rest of the world . 
We in this Department must think about foreign policy in its total context . 
We cannot regard foreign policy as something left over after defense policy or trade policy or fiscal policy has been extracted . 
Foreign policy is the total involvement of the American people with peoples and governments abroad . 
That means that , if we are to achieve a new standard of leadership , we must think in terms of the total context of our situation . 
It is the concern of the Department of State that the American people are safe and secure -- defense is not a monopoly concern of the Department of Defense . 
It is also the concern of the Department of State that our trading relationships with the rest of the world are vigorous , profitable , and active -- this is not just a passing interest or a matter of concern only to the Department of Commerce . 
We can no longer rely on interdepartmental machinery `` somewhere upstairs '' to resolve differences between this and other departments . 
Assistant Secretaries of State will now carry an increased burden of active formulation and coordination of policies . 
Means must be found to enable us to keep in touch as regularly and as efficiently as possible with our colleagues in other departments concerned with foreign policy . 
I think we need to concern ourselves also with the timeliness of action . 
Every policy officer cannot help but be a planning officer . 
Unless we keep our eyes on the horizon ahead , we shall fail to bring ourselves on target with the present . 
The movement of events is so fast , the pace so severe , that an attempt to peer into the future is essential if we are to think accurately about the present . 
If there is anything which we can do in the executive branch of the Government to speed up the processes by which we come to decisions on matters on which we must act promptly , that in itself would be a major contribution to the conduct of our affairs . 
Action taken today is often far more valuable than action taken several months later in response to a situation then out of control . 
There will of course be times for delay and inaction . 
What I am suggesting is that when we delay , or when we fail to act , we do so intentionally and not through inadvertence or through bureaucratic or procedural difficulties . 
I also hope that we can do something about reducing the infant mortality rate of ideas -- an affliction of all bureaucracies . 
We want to stimulate ideas from the bottom to the top of the Department . 
We want to make sure that our junior colleagues realize that ideas are welcome , that initiative goes right down to the bottom and goes all the way to the top . 
I hope no one expects that only Presidential appointees are looked upon as sources of ideas . 
The responsibility for taking the initiative in generating ideas is that of every officer in the Department who has a policy function , regardless of rank . 
Further , I would hope that we could pay attention to little things . 
While observing the operations of our Government in various parts of the world , I have felt that in many situations where our policies were good we have tended to ignore minor problems which spoiled our main effort . 
To cite only a few examples : The wrong man in the wrong position , perhaps even in a junior position abroad , can be a source of great harm to our policy ; ; the attitudes of a U.N. delegate who experiences difficulty in finding adequate housing in New York City , or of a foreign diplomat in similar circumstances in our Capital , can easily be directed against the United States and all that it stands for . 
Dozens of seemingly small matters go wrong all over the world . 
Sometimes those who know about them are too far down the line to be able to do anything about them . 
I would hope that we could create the recognition in the Department and overseas that those who come across little things going wrong have the responsibility for bringing these to the attention of those who can do something about them . 
If the Department of State is to take primary responsibility for foreign policy in Washington , it follows that the ambassador is expected to take charge overseas . 
This does not mean in a purely bureaucratic sense but in an active , operational , interested , responsible fashion . 
He is expected to know about what is going on among the representatives of other agencies who are stationed in his country . 
He is expected to supervise , to encourage , to direct , to assist in any way he can . 
If any official operation abroad begins to go wrong , we shall look to the ambassador to find out why and to get suggestions for remedial action . 
The problems of a policy officer It occurred to me that you might be interested in some thoughts which I expressed privately in recent years , in the hope of clearing up a certain confusion in the public mind about what foreign policy is all about and what it means , and of developing a certain compassion for those who are carrying such responsibilities inside Government . 
I tried to do so by calling to their attention some of the problems that a senior departmental policy officer faces . 
This means practically everybody in this room . 
Whether it will strike home for you or not will be for you to determine . 
The senior policy officer may be moved to think hard about a problem by any of an infinite variety of stimuli : an idea in his own head , the suggestions of a colleague , a question from the Secretary or the President , a proposal by another department , a communication from a foreign government or an American ambassador abroad , the filing of an item for the agenda of the United Nations or of any other of dozens of international bodies , a news item read at the breakfast table , a question to the President or the Secretary at a news conference , a speech by a Senator or Congressman , an article in a periodical , a resolution from a national organization , a request for assistance from some private American interests abroad , et cetera , ad infinitum . 
The policy officer lives with his antennae alerted for the questions which fall within his range of responsibility . 
His first thought is about the question itself : Is there a question here for American foreign policy , and , if so , what is it ? 
For he knows that the first and sometimes most difficult job is to know what the question is -- that when it is accurately identified it sometimes answers itself , and that the way in which it is posed frequently shapes the answer . 
Chewing it over with his colleagues and in his own mind , he reaches a tentative identification of the question -- tentative because it may change as he explores it further and because , if no tolerable answer can be found , it may have to be changed into one which can be answered . 
Meanwhile he has been thinking about the facts surrounding the problem , facts which he knows can never be complete , and the general background , much of which has already been lost to history . 
He is appreciative of the expert help available to him and draws these resources into play , taking care to examine at least some of the raw material which underlies their frequently policy-oriented conclusions . 
He knows that he must give the expert his place , but he knows that he must also keep him in it . 
He is already beginning to box the compass of alternative lines of action , including doing nothing . 
He knows that he is thinking about action in relation to a future which can be perceived but dimly through a merciful fog . 
But he takes his bearings from the great guidelines of policy , well-established precedents , the commitments of the United States under international charters and treaties , basic statutes , and well-understood notions of the American people about how we are to conduct ourselves , in policy literature such as country papers and National Security Council papers accumulated in the Department . 
He will not be surprised to find that general principles produce conflicting results in the factual situation with which he is confronted . 
He must think about which of these principles must take precedence . 
He will know that general policy papers written months before may not fit his problem because of crucial changes in circumstance . 
He is aware that every moderately important problem merges imperceptibly into every other problem . 
He must deal with the question of how to manage a part when it cannot be handled without relation to the whole -- when the whole is too large to grasp . 
He must think of others who have a stake in the question and in its answer . 
Who should be consulted among his colleagues in the Department or other departments and agencies of the Government ? 
Which American ambassadors could provide helpful advice ? 
Are private interests sufficiently involved to be consulted ? 
What is the probable attitude of other governments , including those less directly involved ? 
How and at what stage and in what sequence are other governments to be consulted ? 
If action is indicated , what kind of action is relevant to the problem ? 
The selection of the wrong tools can mean waste , at best , and at worst an unwanted inflammation of the problem itself . 
Can the President or the Secretary act under existing authority , or will new legislation and new money be required ? 
Should the action be unilateral or multilateral ? 
Is the matter one for the United Nations or some other international body ? 
For , if so , the path leads through a complex process of parliamentary diplomacy which adds still another dimension to the problem . 
Respect for the opinions of mankind What type of action can hope to win public support , first in this country and then abroad ? 
For the policy officer will know that action can almost never be secret and that in general the effectiveness of policy will be conditioned by the readiness of the country to sustain it . 
He is interested in public opinion for two reasons : first , because it is important in itself , and , second , because he knows that the American public cares about a decent respect for the opinions of mankind . 
And , given probable public attitudes -- about which reasonably good estimates can be made -- what action is called for to insure necessary support ? 
May I add a caution on this particular point ? 
We do not want policy officers below the level of Presidential appointees to concern themselves too much with problems of domestic politics in recommending foreign policy action . 
In the first place our business is foreign policy , and it is the business of the Presidential leadership and his appointees in the Department to consider the domestic political aspects of a problem . 
Mr. Truman emphasized this point by saying , `` You fellows in the Department of State don't know much about domestic politics '' . 
This is an important consideration . 
If we sit here reading editorials and looking at public-opinion polls and other reports that cross our desks , we should realize that this is raw , undigested opinion expressed in the absence of leadership . 
What the American people will do turns in large degree on their leadership . 
We cannot test public opinion until the President and the leaders of the country have gone to the public to explain what is required and have asked them for support for the necessary action . 
I doubt , for example , that , 3 months before the leadership began to talk about what came to be the Marshall plan , any public-opinion expert would have said that the country would have accepted such proposals . 
The problem in the policy officer's mind thus begins to take shape as a galaxy of utterly complicated factors -- political , military , economic , financial , legal , legislative , procedural , administrative -- to be sorted out and handled within a political system which moves by consent in relation to an external environment which cannot be under control . 
And the policy officer has the hounds of time snapping at his heels . 
While there should be no general age limit or restriction to one sex , there will be particular projects requiring special maturity and some open only to men or to women . 
The Peace Corps should not pay the expenses of a wife or family , unless the wife is also accepted for full-time Peace Corps work on the same project . 
There should be no draft exemption because of Peace Corps service . 
In most cases service in the Corps will probably be considered a ground for temporary deferment . 
Peace Corps volunteers obviously should not be paid what they might earn in comparable activities in the United States . 
Nor would it be possible in many cases for them to live in health or any effectiveness on what their counterparts abroad are paid . 
The guiding principle indeed should not be anything like compensation for individual services . 
Rather the principle should be akin to that of the allowance . 
Peace Corps volunteers should be given just enough to provide a minimum decent standard of living . 
They should live in modest circumstances , avoiding all conspicuous consumption . 
Wherever possible they should live with their host country counterparts . 
Some special health requirements might have to be met . 
For example , it probably will be necessary for the Corps to have authority to pay medical expenses of volunteers . 
Perhaps existing Public Health Service , State Department and Armed Services medical facilities can be utilized . 
For readjustment to the U.S. , volunteers should be given some separation allowance at the end of their overseas service , based on the length of time served . 
7 . 
In what part of the government should the Peace Corps be established ? 
The idea of a Peace Corps has captured the imagination of a great many people . 
Support for it cuts across party , regional , ethnic and other lines . 
The Peace Corps , therefore , offers an opportunity to add a new dimension to our approach to the world -- an opportunity for the American people to think anew and start afresh in their participation in world development . 
For this , the Peace Corps should be administered by a small , new , alive agency operating as one component in our whole overseas operation . 
Pending the reorganization of our foreign aid structure and program , the Peace Corps should be established as an agency in the Department of State . 
When the aid operations are reorganized the Peace Corps should remain a semi-autonomous , functional unit . 
Meanwhile , the Peace Corps could be physically located in ICA's facilities and depend on the State Department and ICA for administrative support and , when needed , program assistance . 
In this way the Peace Corps can be launched with its own identity and spirit and yet receive the necessary assistance from those now responsible for United States foreign policy and our overseas operations . 
8 . 
How and when should the Peace Corps be launched ? 
The Peace Corps can either begin in very low gear , with only preparatory work undertaken between now and when Congress finally appropriates special funds for it -- or it can be launched now and in earnest by executive action , with sufficient funds and made available from existing Mutual Security appropriations to permit a number of substantial projects to start this summer . 
The Peace Corps should be launched soon so that the opportunity to recruit the most qualified people from this year's graduating classes will not be lost . 
Nor should we lose the opportunity to use this summer for training on university campuses . 
If launched in a careful but determined way within the next few weeks , the Peace Corps could have several hundred persons in training this summer for placement next fall . 
Within a year or two several thousand might be in service . 
It can then grow steadily as it proves itself and as the need for it is demonstrated . 
9 . 
What would the first projects be ? 
In the first year there should probably be considerable emphasis on teaching projects . 
The need here is most clearly felt and our capacity to recruit and train qualified volunteers in a short period of time is greatest . 
There would , however , be a variety of other skills -- medical , agricultural , engineering -- which would be called for in the first year through the private agency programs and through the provision of technician helpers to existing development projects . 
The first year's projects should also be spread through several countries in Latin America , Africa and Asia . 
10 . 
How will the Peace Corps be received abroad ? 
Although the need for outside trained manpower exists in every newly developing nation , the readiness to receive such manpower , or to receive it from the United States will vary from country to country . 
A certain skepticism about the coming of Americans is to be expected in many quarters . 
Unfriendly political groups will no doubt do everything in their power to promote active hostility . 
But there are indications that many developing nations will welcome Peace Corps volunteers , and that if the volunteers are well chosen , they will soon demonstrate their value and make many friends . 
It is important , however , that the Peace Corps be advanced not as an arm of the Cold War but as a contribution to the world community . 
In presenting it to other governments and to the United Nations , we could propose that every nation consider the formation of its own peace corps and that the United Nations sponsor the idea and form an international coordinating committee . 
We should hope that peace corps projects will be truly international and that our citizens will find themselves working alongside citizens of the host country and also volunteers from other lands . 
In any case , our Peace Corps personnel should be offered as technician helpers in development projects of the U.N. and other international agencies . 
The Peace Corps is not a diplomatic or propaganda venture but a genuine experiment in international partnership . 
Our aim must be to learn as much as we teach . 
The Peace Corps offers an opportunity to bring home to the United States the problems of the world as well as an opportunity to meet urgent host country needs for trained manpower . 
If presented in this spirit , the response and the results will be immeasurably better . 
11 . 
How will it be financed ? 
The already appropriated funds within the discretion of the President and Secretary of State under the Mutual Security Act are the only immediately available source of financing this summer's pilot programs of the Peace Corps . 
If it is decided to make a small shift which may be required from military aid or special assistance funds , in order to carry out the purposes of the Mutual Security Act through this new peaceful program , this will be a hopeful sign to the world . 
Congress should then be asked to give the Peace Corps a firm legislative foundation for the next fiscal year . 
Specifically , Congress should consider authorizing the Peace Corps to receive contributions from American businesses , unions , civic organizations and the public at large . 
For this must be the project of the whole American people . 
An Advisory Council of outstanding public figures with experience in world affairs should be formed to give the program continuing guidance and to afford a focal point for public understanding . 
Steps should also be taken to link the Food for Peace Program with the Peace Corps , so that foreign currencies accumulated by the sale of U.S. surplus food under P.L. 480 can be put to use to pay some of the host country expenses of Peace Corps personnel . 
The extent to which participating bodies such as U. S. voluntary agencies , universities , international organizations , and the host country or institutions in the host country can and should share the cost of the Peace Corps programs must be fully explored . 
12 . 
Is it worth the cost and the risks ? 
No matter how well conceived and efficiently run , there probably will be failures . 
These could be costly and have a serious effect both at home and abroad . 
But as the popular response suggests , the potentiality of the Peace Corps is very great . 
It can contribute to the development of critical countries and regions . 
It can promote international cooperation and good will toward this country . 
It can also contribute to the education of America and to more intelligent American participation in the world . 
With thousands of young Americans going to work in developing areas , millions of Americans will become more directly involved in the world than ever before . 
With colleges and universities carrying a large part of the program , and with students looking toward Peace Corps service , there will be an impact on educational curriculum and student seriousness . 
The letters home , the talks later given by returning members of the Peace Corps , the influence on the lives of those who spend two or three years in hard work abroad -- all this may combine to provide a substantial popular base for responsible American policies toward the world . 
And this is meeting the world's need , too , since what the world most needs from this country is better understanding of the world . 
The Peace Corps thus can add a new dimension to America's world policy -- one for which people here and abroad have long been waiting . 
As you said in your State of the Union message , `` The problems are towering and unprecedented -- and the response must be towering and unprecedented as well '' . 
To the Congress of the United States : I recommend to the Congress the establishment of a permanent Peace Corps -- a pool of trained American men and women sent overseas by the U.S. Government or through private organizations and institutions to help foreign countries meet their urgent needs for skilled manpower . 
I have today signed an Executive Order establishing a Peace Corps on a temporary pilot basis . 
The temporary Peace Corps will be a source of information and experience to aid us in formulating more effective plans for a permanent organization . 
In addition , by starting the Peace Corps now we will be able to begin training young men and women for overseas duty this summer with the objective of placing them in overseas positions by late fall . 
This temporary Peace Corps is being established under existing authority in the Mutual Security Act and will be located in the Department of State . 
Its initial expenses will be paid from appropriations currently available for our foreign aid program . 
Throughout the world the people of the newly developing nations are struggling for economic and social progress which reflects their deepest desires . 
Our own freedom , and the future of freedom around the world , depend , in a very real sense , on their ability to build growing and independent nations where men can live in dignity , liberated from the bonds of hunger , ignorance and poverty . 
One of the greatest obstacles to the achievement of this goal is the lack of trained men and women with the skill to teach the young and assist in the operation of development projects -- men and women with the capacity to cope with the demands of swiftly evolving economics , and with the dedication to put that capacity to work in the villages , the mountains , the towns and the factories of dozens of struggling nations . 
The vast task of economic development urgently requires skilled people to do the work of the society -- to help teach in the schools , construct development projects , demonstrate modern methods of sanitation in the villages , and perform a hundred other tasks calling for training and advanced knowledge . 
To meet this urgent need for skilled manpower we are proposing the establishment of a Peace Corps -- an organization which will recruit and train American volunteers , sending them abroad to work with the people of other nations . 
This organization will differ from existing assistance programs in that its members will supplement technical advisers by offering the specific skills needed by developing nations if they are to put technical advice to work . 
They will help provide the skilled manpower necessary to carry out the development projects planned by the host governments , acting at a working level and serving at great personal sacrifice . 
There is little doubt that the number of those who wish to serve will be far greater than our capacity to absorb them . 
Wildlife habitat resources In 1960 one-quarter of the 92.5 million recreation visits to the National Forests and Grasslands were for the primary purpose of hunting and fishing . 
Hunter and fisherman visits since 1949 have increased 8 times faster than the nationwide sale of hunting and fishing licenses . 
This use is expected to increase to about 50 million visits by 1972 . 
The long-range objective of habitat management is to make it fully productive so as to support fish and game populations to contribute to the need for public use and enjoyment . 
The wildlife habitat management proposals for the 10-year period are : 1 . 
Revise and complete wildlife habitat management and improvement plans for all administrative units , assuring proper coordination between wildlife habitat management and other resources . 
2 . 
Inventory and evaluate wildlife habitat resources in cooperation with other Federal agencies and with the States in which National Forests and Grasslands are located , as a basis for orderly development of wildlife habitat improvement and coordination programs , including ( A ) big-game , gamebird , and small-game habitat surveys and investigations on the 186 million acres of National Forests and Grasslands , ( B ) fishery habitat surveys and investigations on the 81,000 miles of National Forest fishing streams and nearly 3 million acres of lakes and impoundments , and ( C ) participation in planning , inspection , and control phases of all habitat improvement , land and water use projects conducted on National Forest lands by States , other Federal agencies , and private groups to assure that projects will benefit wildlife and be in harmony with other resource values . 
3 . 
Improve food and cover on 1.5 million acres of key wildlife areas . 
4 . 
Develop wildlife openings , food patches , and game ways in dense vegetation by clearing or controlled burning on 400,000 acres . 
5 . 
Improve 7,000 miles of fishing streams and 56,000 acres of lakes by stabilizing banks , planting streamside cover , and constructing channel improvements . 
Protection The total adverse impact of disease , insects , fire , weather , destructive animals , and other forces on the uses and values of forest resources is not generally recognized . 
They kill and destroy , retard or prevent reproduction and growth , impair and damage values , and disrupt uses . 
The loss in growth of sawtimber because of damage by destructive agencies in the United States in 1952 was estimated to be about 44 billion board feet . 
If it were not for the effect of destructive agencies , sawtimber growth would have been nearly twice as great as the 47 billion board feet in 1952 . 
About 45 percent of the loss in growth was attributable to disease , 20 percent to insects , 17 percent to fire , and 18 percent to weather , animals , and various other causes . 
These destructive forces also have a seriously adverse effect upon the watersheds and their life-supporting waterflows , and upon the other renewable forest resources . 
The long-range objective is to hold the damage from destructive agencies below the level which would seriously interfere with intensive management of the National Forest System under principles of multiple use and high-level sustained yield of products and services . 
This can be accomplished substantially by a continued trend toward better facilities and techniques for fire control and more resources to cope with critical fire periods , and a more intensive application of a program of prevention , detection , and control of insect and disease infestations . 
In addition to direct protection measures , more intensive management of timber resources will assist in reduction of losses from insects and disease . 
Protection from insects and disease In the 10-year period , it is proposed that insect and disease control on the National Forest System be stepped up to a level of prevention , detection , and control of insect and disease infestations that will substantially reduce the occurrence of large infestations toward the end of the initial period . 
This will require about a 40 percent increase over the present level of protection . 
The work will consist of : 1 . 
Intensification of present activities through ( A ) quicker , more extensive , and more thorough surveys to detect incipient outbreaks ; ; ( B ) more reliable evaluation of the potential of initial outbreaks to cause widespread damage ; ; ( C ) quicker and more effective control action in the initial stages to prevent a large-scale epidemic . 
The initial suppression activities would cover about twice the acreage currently being treated . 
2 . 
Continuation of present blister rust control work plus extension of control to 250,000 acres not now protected but which should be managed for white pine production . 
The objective is to achieve sufficient effectiveness of control on all of the area now under treatment plus the additional acres so that after the initial period only maintenance control will be needed . 
3 . 
Initiating a program to control dwarf mistletoe on several hundred thousand acres of selected better stands of young softwood sawtimber on better growing sites . 
4 . 
Coordination of pest control objectives with timber management activities to reduce losses . 
Protection from fire It is proposed that in 10 years all commercial timberlands , all critical watersheds , and other lands in the National Forest System developed or proposed for intensive use will be given protection from fire adequate to meet the fire situation in the worst years and under serious peak loads . 
This will include 125 million acres compared with 23 million acres now receiving such protection . 
An additional 15 million acres will be given a lesser degree of protection but adequate to meet the average fire situation . 
Meeting these levels of protection from fire calls for : 1 . 
Expansion , modernization , and development of fire control to a proficiency and strength of force which will prevent as many fires as possible and suppress fires before they spread beyond permitted standards . 
This is to be accomplished by nearly doubling the present level of preventive effort , detection , skilled fire-fighting crews , and equipment use . 
This will include a stepped-up program of training and development of personnel . 
2 . 
Adoption and use of new and modern techniques being developed for prevention , for suppression of fires while small , and for stopping large fires while running and burning intensely . 
3 . 
Reduction of hazardous fuel conditions to minimize the chances of large fires developing and spreading to high-value areas . 
This work will cover the most serious one-fourth of all land needing such treatment , and will consist of burning 250,000 acres of highly hazardous debris concentration , felling snags on 350,000 acres of high lightning-occurrence areas , prescribed burning on 3.5 million acres , removing roadside fuel on 39,000 acres , and clearing and maintaining 11,000 miles of firebreaks . 
Protection from other damage Rodent control work for the 10-year period will be aimed at control of the most serious infestations of harmful rodents , such as porcupines and mice , on high-value areas of forage and commercial timberlands . 
These areas comprise about half of the total area of rodent infestation on the National Forests . 
Approximately 1.8 million acres of rangelands and 9.4 million acres of timberlands would be treated in this period . 
Control would be limited to those rodents for which economical means of control are known . 
Roads and trails The transportation system which serves the National Forests is a complex of highways and access roads and trails under various ownerships and jurisdictions . 
This system is divided into a forest highway system , administered by the Secretary of Commerce , and a forest development road and trail system , administered by the Secretary of Agriculture . 
Both of these systems are essential for the production , development , and use of the National Forests . 
In the forest highway system , there are now 24,400 miles of public roads . 
These are mostly through highways that carry traffic going from one destination to another . 
Because administration of the forest highway system is a responsibility of the Secretary of Commerce with maintenance provided by the States and counties , this Development Program for the National Forests does not include estimates of the funds needed to maintain the forest highway system nor to construct the additions to it that are needed . 
It is estimated that about 70,000 miles of forest highways will eventually be needed to fully serve the National Forests . 
In the forest development road and trail system , there are now 162,400 miles of roads and 106,500 miles of supplemental foot and horse trails . 
These roads are largely of less than highway standards , and usually carry traffic which is related to use of the National Forests . 
Construction and maintenance of this system is a responsibility of the Secretary of Agriculture . 
It is estimated that about 542,250 miles of forest development roads , and 80,000 miles of trails , constitute the system that will eventually be needed to obtain the maximum practicable yield and use of the wood , water , forage , and wildlife and recreation resources of the National Forests on a continuing basis . 
The ultimate trail system will be of value primarily for recreation and wildlife utilization and fire protection . 
It will be carefully planned to maintain optimum service to these important resources and watersheds . 
The presence or lack of access by road or trail has a direct and controlling influence on all phases of forest management and utilization such as : ( A ) the protection of forage , timber , and wildlife resources from fire , insects , and disease ; ; ( B ) the balanced use of recreation , hunting , and fishing areas ; ; ( C ) the volume of timber that can be marketed , especially for small sales and the support of dependent communities and small business enterprises ; ; ( D ) the level of salvage cutting in dead and dying timber stands and the opportunity to promptly salvage losses resulting from fire , windstorm , insects , and disease ; ; ( E ) the protection of watershed lands from erosion and overgrazing by animals . 
The existence of road systems permits an intensity of management and use for all National Forest purposes that is not otherwise possible . 
Furthermore , roads that give access to National Forest timber are investments which pay their own way over a period of years . 
Use of these roads by the public results in substantial benefits to the localities the roads serve . 
The long-range objective of this Department is to provide and maintain a system of forest development roads and trails which will adequately service the National Forest System at the levels needed to meet expected needs and optimum production of products and services . 
For the year 2000 this means servicing ( A ) the protection requirements of a watershed producing at least 200 million acre-feet of water each year , ( B ) recreation and wildlife resources used each year by 635 million visitors , ( C ) a timber resource supporting an annual cut of 21 billion board feet , and ( D ) 60 million acres of rangelands . 
Service at these levels of production and utilization will eventually require the construction of about 379,900 miles of new roads and 6,000 miles of new trails , along with the reconstruction to higher standards of about 105,000 miles of roads and 10,500 miles of trails . 
About 26,500 miles of existing trails will be replaced in service by the construction of new roads . 
About 80 percent of these long-range requirements should be met by the year 2000 . 
Program proposals for forest development roads and trails for the 10-year period 1963-1972 are as follows : 1 . 
Complete the construction and reconstruction of about 79,400 miles of multiple-purpose roads and 8,000 miles of trails . 
This constitutes about 17 percent of the long-range requirements for these facilities . 
Approximately 40 percent of the value of the work on roads for access to timber which are planned for this period will be constructed by purchasers of National Forest timber , but paid for by the Government through adjustment of stumpage prices . 
2 . 
Provide maintenance to full standards on the 268,900 miles of existing access roads and trails and on the new roads and trails constructed during the period . 
Land adjustment , land purchase , land use Within the units in the National Forest System the pattern of land ownership is quite irregular . 
In some units , National Forest ownership is well blocked together . 
In many others , the previous patenting of land under the public land laws , or the way in which land was available for purchase , resulted in a scattered pattern of ownership . 
Within exterior boundaries of National Forests and National Grasslands , there are about 40,000,000 acres in non-Federal ownership . 
One consequence is the occurrence of occasional conflicts because private owners of some inholdings object to public programs of use on neighboring National Forest or other Federal land , or because such ownerships are developed for uses that are not compatible with use for the public of neighboring National Forest land . 
Some privately held inholdings are a source of direct damage to these Federal lands . 
And some , which are suitable for tree growing and for other National Forest purposes , are unmanaged or in need of expensive rehabilitation , and are contributing nothing to the economy ; ; there are no reasonable prospects that these conditions will be corrected or changed . 
Lands in this last category are situated largely in the mountainous portions of the Eastern States . 
The long-range objective is to bring about consolidation of ownership through use of land exchange authority and through purchase on a moderate scale of inholdings which comprise key tracts for recognized National Forest programs such as recreation development , or which are a source of damage to lands in National Forests and National Grasslands . 
Strategy and tactics of the U.S. military forces are now undergoing one of the greatest transitions in history . 
The change of emphasis from conventional-type to missile-type warfare must be made with care , mindful that the one type of warfare cannot be safely neglected in favor of the other . 
Our military forces must be capable of contending successfully with any contingency which may be forced upon us , from limited emergencies to all-out nuclear general war . 
Forces and military personnel strength . 
-- This budget will provide in the fiscal year 1961 for the continued support of our forces at approximately the present level -- a year-end strength of 2,489,000 men and women in the active forces . 
The forces to be supported include an Army of 14 divisions and 870,000 men ; ; a Navy of 817 active ships and 619,000 men ; ; a Marine Corps of 3 divisions and 3 air wings with 175,000 men ; ; and an Air Force of 91 combat wings and 825,000 men . 
If the reserve components are to serve effectively in time of war , their basic organization and objectives must conform to the changing character and missions of the active forces . 
Quality and combat readiness must take precedence over mere numbers . 
Under modern conditions , this is especially true of the ready reserve . 
I have requested the Secretary of Defense to reexamine the roles and missions of the reserve components in relation to those of the active forces and in the light of the changing requirements of modern warfare . 
Last year the Congress discontinued its previously imposed minimum personnel strength limitations on the Army Reserve . 
Similar restrictions on the strength of the Army National Guard contained in the 1960 Department of Defense Appropriation Act should likewise be dropped . 
I strongly recommend to the Congress the avoidance of mandatory floors on the size of the reserve components so that we may have the flexibility to make adjustments in keeping with military necessity . 
I again proposed a reduction in the Army National Guard and Army Reserve -- from their present strengths of 400,000 and 300,000 , respectively , to 360,000 and 270,000 by the end of the fiscal year 1961 . 
These strengths are considered adequate to meet the essential roles and missions of the reserves in support of our national security objectives . 
Military personnel costs . 
-- About 30% of the expenditures for the Department of Defense in 1961 are for military personnel costs , including pay for active , reserve , and retired military personnel . 
These expenditures are estimated to be $12.1 billion , an increase of $187 million over 1960 , reflecting additional longevity pay of career personnel , more dependents , an increased number of men drawing proficiency pay , and social security tax increases ( effective for the full year in 1961 compared with only 6 months in 1960 ) . 
Retired pay costs are increased by $94 million in 1961 over 1960 , partly because of a substantial increase in the number of retired personnel . 
These increased costs are partially offset by a decrease of $56 million in expenditures for the reserve forces , largely because of the planned reduction in strength of the Army Reserve components during 1961 . 
Traditionally , rates of pay for retired military personnel have been proportionate to current rates of pay for active personnel . 
The 1958 military pay act departed from this established formula by providing for a 6% increase rather than a proportionate increase for everyone retired prior to its effective date of June 1 , 1958 . 
I endorse pending legislation that will restore the traditional relationship between retired and active duty pay rates . 
Operation and maintenance . 
-- Expenditures for operating and maintaining the stations and equipment of the Armed Forces are estimated to be $10.3 billion in 1961 , which is $184 million more than in 1960 . 
The increase stems largely from the growing complexity of and higher degree of maintenance required for newer weapons and equipment . 
A substantial increase is estimated in the cost of operating additional communications systems in the air defense program , as well as in all programs where speed and security of communications are essential . 
Also , the program for fleet modernization will be stepped up in 1961 causing an increase in expenditures . 
Further increases arise from the civilian employee health program enacted by the Congress last year . 
Other factors increasing operating costs include the higher unit cost of each flying hour , up 11% in two years , and of each steaming hour , up 15% . 
In total , these increases in operating costs outweigh the savings that result from declining programs and from economy measures , such as reduced numbers of units and installations , smaller inventories of major equipment , and improvements in the supply and distribution systems of the Armed Forces . 
In the budget message for 1959 , and again for 1960 , I recommended immediate repeal of section 601 of the Act of September 28 , 1951 ( 65 Stat. 365 ) . 
This section prevents the military departments and the Office of Civil and Defense Mobilization from carrying out certain transactions involving real property unless they come into agreement with the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives . 
As I have stated previously , the Attorney General has advised me that this section violates fundamental constitutional principles . 
Accordingly , if it is not repealed by the Congress at its present session , I shall have no alternative thereafter but to direct the Secretary of Defense to disregard the section unless a court of competent jurisdiction determines otherwise . 
Basic long-line communications in Alaska are now provided through Federal facilities operated by the Army , Air Force , and Federal Aviation Agency . 
The growing communications needs of this new State can best be met , as they have in other States , through the operation and development of such facilities by private enterprise . 
Legislation has already been proposed to authorize the sale of these Government-owned systems in Alaska , and its early enactment is desirable . 
Procurement , research , and construction . 
-- Approximately 45% of the expenditures for the Department of Defense are for procurement , research , development , and construction programs . 
In 1961 , these expenditures are estimated at $18.9 billion , compared to $19.3 billion in 1960 . 
The decreases , which are largely in construction and in aircraft procurement , are offset in part by increases for research and development and for procurement of other military equipment such as tanks , vehicles , guns , and electronic devices . 
Expenditures for shipbuilding are estimated at about the same level as in 1960 . 
New obligational authority for 1961 recommended in this budget for aircraft procurement ( excluding amounts for related research and construction ) totals $4,753 million , which is $1,390 million below that enacted for 1960 . 
On the other hand , the new authority of $3,825 million proposed for missile procurement ( excluding research and construction ) in 1961 is $581 million higher than for 1960 . 
These contrasting trends in procurement reflect the anticipated changes in the composition and missions of our Armed Forces in the years ahead . 
The Department of Defense appropriation acts for the past several years have contained a rider which limits competitive bidding by firms in other countries on certain military supply items . 
As I have repeatedly stated , this provision is much more restrictive than the general law , popularly known as the Buy American Act . 
I urge once again that the Congress not reenact this rider . 
The task of providing a reasonable level of military strength , without endangering other vital aspects of our security , is greatly complicated by the swift pace of scientific progress . 
The last few years have witnessed what have been perhaps the most rapid advances in military technology in history . 
Some weapons systems have become obsolescent while still in production , and some while still under development . 
Furthermore , unexpectedly rapid progress or a technological break-through on any one weapon system , in itself , often diminishes the relative importance of other competitive systems . 
This has necessitated a continuous review and reevaluation of the defense program in order to redirect resources to the newer and more important weapons systems and to eliminate or reduce effort on weapons systems which have been overtaken by events . 
Thus , in the last few years , a number of programs which looked very promising at the time their development was commenced have since been completely eliminated . 
For example , the importance of the Regulus 2 , a very promising aerodynamic ship-to-surface missile designed to be launched by surfaced submarines , was greatly diminished by the successful acceleration of the much more advanced Polaris ballistic missile launched by submerged submarines . 
Another example is the recent cancellation of the F-108 , a long-range interceptor with a speed three times as great as the speed of sound , which was designed for use against manned bombers in the period of the mid-1960's . 
The substantial progress being made in ballistic missile technology is rapidly shifting the main threat from manned bombers to missiles . 
Considering the high cost of the F-108 system -- over $4 billion for the force that had been planned -- and the time period in which it would become operational , it was decided to stop further work on the project . 
Meanwhile , other air defense forces are being made effective , as described later in this message . 
The size and scope of other important programs have been reduced from earlier plans . 
Notable in this category are the Jupiter and Thor intermediate range ballistic missiles , which have been successfully developed , produced , and deployed , but the relative importance of which has diminished with the increasing availability of the Atlas intercontinental ballistic missile . 
The impact of technological factors is also illustrated by the history of the high-energy fuel program . 
This project was started at a time when there was a critical need for a high-energy fuel to provide an extra margin of range for high performance aircraft , particularly our heavy bombers . 
Continuing technical problems involved in the use of this fuel , coupled with significant improvements in aircraft range through other means , have now raised serious questions about the value of the high-energy fuel program . 
As a result , the scope of this project has been sharply curtailed . 
These examples underscore the importance of even more searching evaluations of new major development programs and even more penetrating and far-ranging analyses of the potentialities of future technology . 
The cost of developing a major weapon system is now so enormous that the greatest care must be exercised in selecting new systems for development , in determining the most satisfactory rate of development , and in deciding the proper time at which either to place a system into production or to abandon it . 
Strategic forces . 
-- The deterrent power of our Armed Forces comes from both their nuclear retaliatory capability and their capability to conduct other essential operations in any form of war . 
The first capability is represented by a combination of manned bombers , carrier-based aircraft , and intercontinental and intermediate range missiles . 
The second capability is represented by our deployed ground , naval , and air forces in essential forward areas , together with ready reserves capable of effecting early emergency reinforcement . 
The Strategic Air Command is the principal element of our long-range nuclear capability . 
One of the important and difficult decisions which had to be made in this budget concerned the role of the B-70 , a long-range supersonic bomber . 
This aircraft , which was planned for initial operational use about 1965 , would be complementary to but likewise competitive with the four strategic ballistic missile systems , all of which are scheduled to become available earlier . 
The first Atlas ICBM's are now operational , the first two Polaris submarines are expected to be operational this calendar year , and the first Titan ICBM's next year . 
The Minuteman solid-fueled ICBM is planned to be operational about mid-1963 . 
By 1965 , several or all of these systems will have been fully tested and their reliability established . 
Thus , the need for the B-70 as a strategic weapon system is doubtful . 
However , I am recommending that development work on the B-70 air-frame and engines be continued . 
It is expected that in 1963 two prototype aircraft will be available for flight testing . 
By that time we should be in a much better position to determine the value of that aircraft as a weapon system . 
I am recommending additional acquisitions of the improved version of the B-52 ( the B-52H with the new turbofan engine ) and procurement of the B-58 supersonic medium bomber , together with the supporting refueling tankers in each case . 
These additional modern bombers will replace some of the older B-47 medium bombers ; ; one B-52 can do the work of several B-47's which it will replace . 
Funds are also included in this budget to continue the equipping of the B-52 wings with the Hound Dog air-to-surface missile . 
In the coming fiscal year additional quantities of Atlas , Titan , and Polaris missiles also will be procured . 
Purchase authorizations will include provisions relating to the sale and delivery of commodities , including the classes , types and/or varieties of food grain , the time and circumstances of deposit of the rupees accruing from such sale , and other relevant matters . 
3 . 
The United States recognizes the desire of India to accumulate , as quickly as possible , a substantial part of the one million ton reserve stock of rice provided for in this Agreement to assist in stabilizing the internal markets for this commodity in India . 
Under this Agreement the first annual review of rice availabilities will be made in August 1960 . 
At that time consideration will be given to whether in the light of the United States supplies of rice available for Title 1 , disposal , India's production , consumption and stocks of food grains , other imports from the United States and countries friendly to the United States , India's storage capacity , and other related factors , any increase would be possible in the portion of the total rice programmed which is currently planned for procurement during the first year . 
4 . 
The two Governments agree that the issuance of purchase authorizations for wheat and rice providing for purchase after June 30 , 1961 , shall be dependent upon the determination by the United States Government that these commodities are in surplus supply and available under Title 1 , of the Act at that time . 
The United States Government shall have the right to terminate the financing of further sales under this Agreement of any commodity if it determines at any time after June 30 , 1961 , that such action is necessitated by the existence of an international emergency . 
Article 2 , uses of rupees 1 . 
The two Governments agree that the rupees accruing to the Government of the United States of America as a consequence of sales made pursuant to this Agreement will be used by the Government of the United States of America , in such manner and order of priority as the Government of the United States of America shall determine , for the following purposes in the amounts shown : ( A ) For United States expenditures under subsections ( A ) , ( B ) , ( D ) , ( E ) , ( F ) , ( H ) through ( R ) of Section 104 of the Act or under any of such subsections , the rupee equivalent of $200 million . 
( B ) For grant to the Government of India under subsection ( E ) of Section 104 of the Act , the rupee equivalent of not more than $538 million for financing such projects to promote balanced economic development as may from time to time be mutually agreed . 
( C ) For loan to the Government of India under subsection ( G ) of Section 104 of the Act , the rupee equivalent of not more than $538 million for financing such projects to promote balanced economic development as may be mutually agreed . 
The terms and conditions of the loan and other provisions will be set forth in a separate agreement by the two Governments . 
In the event that agreement is not reached on the use of the rupees for grant or loan purposes within six years from the date of this Agreement , the Government of the United States of America may use the local currency for any purposes authorized by Section 104 of the Act . 
2 . 
In the event the total of rupees accruing to the Government of the United States of America as a consequence of sales made pursuant to this Agreement is different from the rupee equivalent of $1,276 million , the amounts available for the purposes specified in paragraph 1 , Article 2 , will be adjusted proportionately . 
Article 3 , deposit of rupees The deposit of rupees to the account of the Government of the United States of America in payment for the commodities and for ocean transportation costs financed by the Government of the United States of America ( except excess costs resulting from the requirement that United States flag vessels be used ) shall be made at the rate of exchange for United States dollars generally applicable to import transactions ( excluding imports granted a preferential rate ) in effect on the dates of dollar disbursement by United States banks , or by the Government of the United States of America , as provided in the purchase authorizations . 
Article 4 , general undertakings 1 . 
The Government of India agrees that it will take all possible measures to prevent the resale or transshipment to other countries or the use for other than domestic purposes ( except where such resale , transshipment or use is specifically approved by the Government of the United States of America ) , of the surplus agricultural commodities purchased pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement , and to assure that the purchase of such commodities does not result in increased availability of these or like commodities for export from India . 
2 . 
The two Governments agree that they will take reasonable precautions to assure that all sales or purchases of surplus agricultural commodities , pursuant to the Agreement will not displace usual marketings of the United States of America in these commodities , or unduly disrupt world prices of agricultural commodities or normal patterns of commercial trade with friendly countries . 
3 . 
In carrying out this Agreement , the two Governments will seek to assure , to the extent practicable , conditions of commerce permitting private traders to function effectively and will use their best endeavors to develop and extend continuous market demand for agricultural commodities . 
4 . 
The Government of India agrees to furnish , upon request of the United States of America , information on the progress of the program , particularly with respect to the arrival and condition of commodities and the provisions for the maintenance of usual marketings , and information relating to exports of the same or like commodities . 
Article 5 , consultation The two Governments will , upon the request of either of them , consult regarding any matter relating to the application of this Agreement or to the operation of arrangements carried out pursuant to this Agreement . 
Article 6 , entry into force The agreement shall enter into force upon signature . 
In witness whereof , the respective representatives , duly authorized for the purpose , have signed the present Agreement . 
Done at Washington in duplicate this fourth day of May 1960 . 
For the government of the United States of America : Dwight D. Eisenhower for the government of India : S. K. Patil Excellency : I have the honor to refer to the Agricultural Commodities Agreement signed today between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of India ( hereinafter referred to as the Agreement ) and , with regard to the rupees accruing to uses indicated under Article 2 , of the Agreement , to state that the understanding of the Government of the United States of America is as follows : 1 . 
With respect to Article 2 , , Paragraph 1 ( A ) of the Agreement : ( 1 ) The Government of India will provide facilities for the conversions of the rupee equivalent of $4 million ( up to a maximum of $1 million per year ) accruing under the subject agreement for agricultural market development purposes into currencies other than United States dollars on request of the Government of the United States of America . 
This facility is needed for the purpose of securing funds to finance agricultural market development activities of the Government of the United States in other countries . 
The Government of the United States of America may utilize rupees in India to pay for goods and services , including international transportation needed in connection with market development and other agricultural projects and activities in India and other countries . 
( 2 ) The rupee equivalent of $63.8 million , but not more than 5 percent of the currencies received under the Agreement will be used for loans to be made by the Export-Import Bank of Washington under Section 104 ( E ) of the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act , as amended ( hereinafter referred to as the Act ) , and for administrative expenses of the Export-Import Bank of Washington in India incident thereto . 
It is understood that : ( A ) Such loans under Section 104 ( E ) of the Act will be made to United States business firms and branches , subsidiaries , or affiliates of such firms in India for business development and trade expansion in India and to United States firms and to Indian firms for the establishment of facilities for aiding in the utilization , distribution , or otherwise increasing the consumption of and markets for United States agricultural products . 
In the event the rupees set aside for loans under Section 104 ( E ) of the Act are not advanced within six years from the date of this Agreement because the Export-Import Bank of Washington has not approved loans or because proposed loans have not been mutually agreeable to the Export-Import Bank of Washington and the Department of Economic Affairs of the Government of India , the Government of the United States of America may use the rupees for any purpose authorized by Section 104 of the Act . 
( B ) Loans will be mutually agreeable to the Export-Import Bank of Washington and the Government of India acting through the Department of Economic Affairs of the Ministry of Finance . 
The Secretary , Department of Economic Affairs , or his designate , will act for the Government of India , and the President of the Export-Import Bank of Washington , or his designate , will act for the Export-Import Bank of Washington . 
( C ) Upon receipt of an application which the Export-Import Bank is prepared to consider , the Export-Import Bank will inform the Department of Economic Affairs of the identity of the applicant , the nature of the proposed business , the amount of the proposed loan , and the general purposes for which the loan proceeds would be expended . 
( D ) When the Export-Import Bank is prepared to act favorably upon an application , it will so notify the Department of Economic Affairs and will indicate the interest rate and the repayment period which would be used under the proposed loan . 
The interest rate will be similar to those prevailing in India on comparable loans and the maturities will be consistent with the purposes of the financing . 
( E ) Within sixty days after the receipt of notice that the Export-Import Bank is prepared to act favorably upon an application the Department of Economic Affairs will indicate to the Export-Import Bank whether or not the Department of Economic Affairs has any objection to the proposed loan . 
Unless within the sixty-day period the Export-Import Bank has received such a communication from the Department of Economic Affairs it shall be understood that the Department of Economic Affairs has no objection to the proposed loan . 
When the Export-Import Bank approves or declines the proposed loan , it will notify the Department of Economic Affairs . 
2 . 
With respect to Article 2 , , paragraphs 1 ( B ) and 1 ( C ) : Uses of Section 104 ( E ) and Section 104 ( G ) rupees : The Government of India will use the amount of rupees granted or loaned to it by the United States pursuant to paragraphs 1 ( B ) and 1 ( C ) for projects to promote economic development with emphasis upon the agricultural sector including food reserve storage structures and facilities as may from time to time be agreed upon by the authorized representatives of the United States and the authorized representatives of the Government of India , in the following sectors : A . 
Agriculture ; ; B . 
Industry , including the production of fertilizer , irrigation and power , transport and communications , and credit institutions ; ; C . 
Public health , education , and rehabilitation ; ; D . 
Other economic development projects consistent with the purposes of Sections 104 ( E ) and 104 ( G ) of the Act . 
The Government of India further agrees in cooperation with the Government of the United States , to coordinate the use of grant and loan funds provided for in paragraphs 1 ( B ) and 1 ( C ) of Article 2 , with such direct dollar assistance as may be made available by the Government of the United States of America , so that both sources of financing may be channeled to specific and clearly identifiable economic development programs and projects . 
3 . 
It is agreed that any goods delivered or services rendered after the date of this agreement for projects within categories A , B , and C under paragraph 2 above which may later be approved by the United States will be eligible for financing from currency granted or loaned to the Government of India . 
4 . 
With regard to the rupees accruing to uses indicated under Article 2 , of the Agreement , the understanding of the Government of the United States of America , with respect to both paragraphs 1 ( B ) and 1 ( C ) of Article 2 , is as follows : ( 1 ) Local currency will be advanced or reimbursed to the Government of India for financing agreed projects under paragraphs 1 ( B ) and 1 ( C ) of Article 2 , of the Agreement upon the presentation of such documentation as the United States may specify . 
( 2 ) The Government of India shall maintain or cause to be maintained books and records adequate to identify the goods and services financed for agreed projects pursuant to paragraphs 1 ( B ) and 1 ( C ) of Article 2 , of the Agreement , to disclose the use thereof in the projects and to record the progress of the projects ( including the cost thereof ) . 
The books and records with respect to each project shall be maintained for the duration of the project , or until the expiration of three years after final disbursement for the project has been made by the United States , whichever is later . 
The two Governments shall have the right at all reasonable times to examine such books and records and all other documents , correspondence , memoranda and other records involving transactions relating to agreed projects . 
The Government of India shall enable the authorized representatives of the United States to observe and review agreed projects and the utilization of goods and services financed under the projects , and shall furnish to the United States all such information as it shall reasonably request concerning the above-mentioned matters and the expenditures related thereto . 
This broad delegation leaves within our discretion ( subject to the always-present criterion of the public interest ) both the determination of what degree of interference shall be considered excessive , and the methods by which such excessive interference shall be avoided . 
3 . 
The present proceeding is concerned with the standard broadcast ( AM ) band , from 540 kc. to 1600 kc. . 
Whenever two or more standard broadcast stations operate simultaneously on the same or closely adjacent frequencies , each interferes to some extent with reception of the other . 
The extent of such interference -- which may be so slight as to be undetectable at any point where either of the stations renders a usable signal , or may be so great as to virtually destroy the service areas of both stations -- depends on many factors , among the principal ones being the distance between the stations , their respective radiated power , and , of particular significance here , the time of day . 
Other factors playing a part in the extent of AM service and interference are the frequency involved , the time of year , the position of the year in the sunspot cycle , ground conductivity along the transmission path , atmospheric and manmade noise , and others . 
With the existence of these many factors , some of them variable , it obviously has never been and is not now possible for the Commission to make assignments of AM stations on a case-to-case basis which will insure against any interference in any circumstances . 
Rather , such assignments are made , as they must be , on the basis of certain overall rules and standards , representing to some extent a statistical approach to the problem , taking into account for each situation some of the variables ( e.g. , power and station separations ) and averaging out others in order to achieve the balance which must be struck between protection against destructive interference and the assignment of a number of stations large enough to afford optimum radio service to the Nation . 
An example of the overall standards applied is the 20-to-1 ratio established for the determination of that degree of cochannel interference which is regarded as objectionable . 
By this standard , it is determined that where two stations operating on the same frequency are involved , objectionable interference from station A exists at any point within the service area of station B where station A's signal is of an intensity one-twentieth or more of the strength of station B's signal at that point . 
4 . 
The 20-to-1 ratio for cochannel interference embodies one of the fundamental limiting principles which we must always take into account in AM assignments and allocations -- that signals from a particular station are potential sources of objectionable interference over an area much greater than that within which they provide useful service . 
A second fundamental principle is that involved particularly in the present proceeding -- the difference between nighttime and daytime propagation conditions with respect to the standard broadcast frequencies . 
This is a phenomenon familiar to all radio listeners , resulting from reflection of skywave signals at night from the ionized layer in the upper atmosphere known as the ionosphere . 
All AM stations radiate both skywave and groundwave signals , at all hours ; ; but during the middle daytime hours these skywave radiations are not reflected in any substantial quantity , and during this portion of the day both skywave service and skywave interference are , in general , negligible . 
But during nighttime hours the skywave radiations are reflected from the ionosphere , thereby creating the possibility of one station's rendering service , via skywave , at a much greater distance than it can through its groundwave signal , and at the same time vastly complicating the interference problem because of the still greater distance over which these skywave signals may cause interference to the signals of stations on the same and closely adjacent frequencies . 
Because of the difference between daytime and nighttime propagation conditions , it has been necessary to evolve different allocation structures for daytime and nighttime broadcasting in the AM band , with many more stations operating during the day than at night . 
5 . 
It was recognized years ago that the transition from daytime to nighttime propagation conditions , and vice versa , is not an instantaneous process , but takes place over periods of time from roughly 2 hours before sunset until about 2 hours after sunset , and again from roughly 2 hours before sunrise until some 2 hours after sunrise . 
During the period of about 4 hours around sunset , skywave transmission conditions are building up until full nighttime conditions prevail ; ; during the same period around sunrise , skywave transmission is declining , until at about 2 hours after sunrise it reaches a point where it becomes of little practical significance . 
However , in this case as elsewhere it was necessary to arrive at a single standard to be applied to all situations , representing an averaging of conditions , and thus to fix particular points in time which would be considered the dividing points between daytime and nighttime conditions . 
It was determined that the hours of sunrise and sunset , respectively , should be used for this purpose . 
Accordingly , the 1938-39 rules adopted these hours as limitations upon the operation of daytime stations . 
Class 2 , stations operating on clear channels are required to cease operation or operate under nighttime restrictions beginning either at local sunset ( for daytime class 2 , stations ) or sunset at the location of the dominant class 1 , station where located west of the class 2 , station ( for limited-time class 2 , stations ) . 
The same restrictions apply after local sunset in the case of class 3 , stations operating on regional channels , which after that time are required to operate under nighttime restrictions in order to protect each other . 
With respect to nighttime assignments , the degree of skywave service and interference is determined by skywave curves ( figs. 1 and 2 of sec. 3.190 of the rules ) giving average skywave values . 
These curves were derived by an analysis of extensive skywave measurement data . 
It was recognized that skywave signals , because of their reflected nature , are of great variability and subject to wide fluctuations in strength . 
For this reason , the more uncertain skywave service was denominated `` secondary '' in our rules , as compared to the steadier , more reliable groundwave `` primary service '' , and , for both skywave service and skywave interference , signal strength is expressed in terms of percentage of time a particular signal-intensity level is exceeded -- 50 percent of the time for skywave service , 10 percent of the time for skywave interference . 
Allocation policies 6 . 
As mentioned , the allocation of AM stations represents a balance between protection against interference and the provision of opportunity for an adequate number of stations . 
The rules and policies to be applied in this process of course must be based on objectives which represent what is to be desired if radio service is to be of maximum use to the Nation . 
Our objectives , as we have stated many times , are -- ( 1 ) To provide some service to all listeners ; ; ( 2 ) To provide as many choices of service to as many listeners as possible ; ; ( 3 ) To provide service of local origin to as many listeners as possible . 
Since broadcast frequencies are very limited in number , these objectives are to some extent inconsistent in that not all of them can be fully realized , and to the extent that each is realized , there is a corresponding reduction of the possibilities for fullest achievement of the others . 
Accordingly , the Commission has recognized that an optimum allocation pattern for one frequency does not necessarily represent the best pattern for other frequencies , and has assigned different frequencies for use by different classes of stations . 
Some 45 frequencies are assigned for use primarily by dominant Class 1 , -- A or Class 1 , -- B clear-channel stations , designed to operate with adequate power and to provide service -- both groundwave and ( at night ) skywave -- over large areas and at great distances , being protected against interference to the degree necessary to achieve this objective . 
In dealing with these frequencies , the objective listed first above -- provision of service to all listeners -- was predominant ; ; the other objectives were subordinated to it . 
The class 1 , stations on these clear channels are protected to their 0.1-mv./m. groundwave contours against daytime cochannel interference . 
With respect to skywave service rendered at night , class 1 , -- A stations are the only stations permitted to operate in the United States on clear channels specified for class 1 , -- A operation , and so render skywave service free from cochannel interference whereever they may be received ; ; class 1 , -- B stations are protected at night to their 0.5-mv./m. 50-percent time skywave contours against cochannel interference . 
Since the provision of skywave service requires adequate freedom from interference , only class 1 , stations are capable of rendering skywave service . 
But nighttime operation by stations of other classes of course entails skywave interference to groundwave service , interference which is substantial unless steps are taken to minimize it . 
7 . 
With respect to other frequencies , these are designated as regional or local , and assigned for use by class 3 , and class 4 , stations , respectively , stations operating generally with lower power . 
In the allocation pattern worked out for these frequencies , the provision of long-range service has to some extent been subordinated to the other two objectives -- assignment of multiple facilities , and assignment of stations in as many communities as possible . 
8 . 
As mentioned , the primary allocation objective to be followed in the allocation of stations on clear channels is the provision of widespread service , free from destructive interference . 
During nighttime hours , because of the intense skywave propagation then prevailing , no large number of stations can be permitted to operate on one of these channels , if the wide area service for which these frequencies are assigned is to be rendered satisfactorily by the dominant stations which must be relied upon to render it . 
Therefore , under our longstanding allocation rules , on some of these channels no station other than the dominant ( class 1 ) -- A ) station is permitted to operate at night , so that the 1 , -- A station can render service , interference free , wherever it can be received . 
On the remainder of the clear channels , the dominant ( class 1 ) -- B stations are protected as described above , and the relatively small number of secondary ( class 2 ) ) stations permitted to operate on these channels at night are required to operate directionally and/or with reduced power so as to protect the class 1 , stations . 
In the daytime , on the other hand , since skywave transmission is relatively inefficient , it is possible to assign a substantially larger number of stations on these channels . 
Additional class 2 , assignments for daytime operation can be made without causing destructive interference to the class 1 , stations or to each other , and by their operation provide additional service on these channels and additional local outlets for a large number of communities . 
Such additional daytime class 2 , assignments are appropriate if optimum use is to be made of these frequencies , and the Commission has over the years made a large number of them . 
Similarly , on the regional channels many class 3 , stations have been assigned either to operate daytime only or to operate nighttime with directional antennas and/or lower power . 
9 . 
Essentially , the question presented for decision in the present Daytime Skywave proceeding is whether our decision ( in 1938-1939 ) to assign stations on the basis of daytime conditions from sunrise to sunset , is sound as a basis for AM allocations , or whether , in the light of later developments and new understanding , skywave transmission is of such significance during the hours immediately before sunset and after sunrise that this condition should be taken into account , and some stations required to afford protection to other stations during these hours . 
The history of the proceeding 10 . 
The decision reached in 1938-39 was made after the accumulation of a large amount of data and thorough study thereof . 
Since then , there has been a notable increase in the number of stations and also the accumulation of additional data and the development of new techniques for using it , leading to a better understanding of propagation phenomena . 
In 1947 , affidavits were filed with the Commission by various clear-channel stations alleging that extensive interference was being caused to the service areas of these stations during daylight hours , from class 2 , stations whose signals were being reflected from the ionosphere so as to create skywave intereference . 
If you elect to use the Standard Deduction or the Tax Table , and later find you should have itemized your deductions , you may do so by filing an amended return within the time prescribed for filing a claim for refund . 
See You May Claim A Refund , Page 135 . 
The same is true if you have itemized your deductions and later decide you should have used the Standard Deduction or Tax Table . 
The words amended return should be plainly written across the top of such return . 
When and where to file April 15 is usually the final date for filing income tax returns for most people because they use the calendar year ending on December 31 . 
If you use a fiscal year , a year ending on the last day of any month other than December , your return is due on or before the 15th day of the 4th month after the close of your tax year . 
Saturday , Sunday , or holiday . 
If the last day ( due date ) for performing any act for tax purposes , such as filing a return or making a tax payment , etc. , falls on Saturday , Sunday , or a legal holiday , you may perform that act on the next succeeding day which is not a Saturday , Sunday , or legal holiday . 
Since April 15 , 1962 , is on Sunday your return for the calendar year 1961 will be timely filed if it is filed on or before Monday , April 16 , 1962 . 
If you mail A return or tax payment , you must place it in the mails in ample time to reach the district director on or before the due date . 
Declaration of estimated tax . 
If you were required to file a declaration of estimated tax for the calendar year 1961 , it is not necessary to pay the fourth installment otherwise due on January 15 , 1962 , if you file your income tax return Form 1040 , and pay your tax in full for the calendar year 1961 by January 31 , 1962 . 
The filing of an original or amended declaration , otherwise due on January 15 , 1962 , is also waived , if you file your Form 1040 for 1961 and pay the full tax by January 31 , 1962 . 
Farmers , for these purposes , have until February 15 , 1962 , to file Form 1040 and pay the tax in full for the calendar year 1961 . 
Fiscal year taxpayers have until the last day of the first month following the close of the fiscal year ( farmers until the 15th day of the 2d month ) . 
See Chapter 38 . 
Nonresident aliens living in Canada or Mexico who earn wages in the United States may be subject to withholding of tax on their wages , the same as if they were citizens of the United States . 
Their United States tax returns are due April 16 , 1962 . 
However , if their United States income is not subject to the withholding of tax on wages , their returns are due June 15 , 1962 , if they use a calendar year , or the 15th day of the 6th month after the close of their fiscal year . 
Nonresident aliens in Puerto Rico . 
If you are a nonresident alien and a resident of Puerto Rico , your return is also due June 15 , 1962 , or the 15th day of the 6th month after the close of your fiscal year . 
If A taxpayer dies , the executor , administrator , or legal representative must file the final return for the decedent on or before the 15th day of the 4th month following the close of the deceased taxpayer's normal tax year . 
Suppose John Jones , who , for 1960 , filed on the basis of a calendar year , died June 20 , 1961 . 
His return for the period January 1 to June 20 , 1961 , is due April 16 , 1962 . 
The return for a decedent may also serve as a claim for refund of an overpayment of tax . 
In such a case , Form 1310 should be completed and attached to the return . 
This form may be obtained from the local office of your district director . 
Returns of estates or trusts are due on or before the 15th day of the 4th month after the close of the tax year . 
Extensions of time for filing . 
Under unusual circumstances a resident individual may be granted an extension of time to file a return . 
You may apply for such an extension by filing Form 2688 , Application For Extension Of Time To File , with the District Director of Internal Revenue for your district , or you may make your application in a letter . 
Your application must include the following information : ( 1 ) your reasons for requesting an extension , ( 2 ) whether you filed timely income tax returns for the 3 preceding years , and ( 3 ) whether you were required to file an estimated return for the year , and if so whether you did file and have paid the estimated tax payments on or before the due dates . 
Any failure to file timely returns or make estimated tax payments when due must be fully explained . 
Extensions are not granted as a matter of course , and the reasons for your request must be substantial . 
If you are unable to sign the request , because of illness or other good cause , another person who stands in close personal or business relationship to you may sign the request on your behalf , stating the reason why you are unable to sign . 
You should make any request for an extension early so that if it is refused , your return may still be on time . 
See also Interest On Unpaid Taxes , below . 
Extensions while abroad . 
Citizens of the United States who , on April 15 , are not in the United States or Puerto Rico , are allowed an extension of time until June 15 for filing the return for the preceding calendar year . 
An extension of 2 months beyond the regular due date for filing is also available to taxpayers making returns for a fiscal year . 
Alaska and Hawaii . 
Taxpayers residing or traveling in Alaska are also allowed this extension of time for filing , but those residing or traveling in Hawaii are not allowed this automatic extension . 
Military or Naval Personnel on duty in Alaska or outside the United States and Puerto Rico are also allowed this automatic extension of time for filing their returns . 
You must attach a statement to your return , if you take advantage of this automatic extension , showing that you were in Alaska or were outside the United States or Puerto Rico on April 15 or other due date . 
Interest on unpaid taxes . 
Interest at the rate of 6% a year must be paid on taxes that are not paid on or before their due date . 
Such interest must be paid even though an extension of time for filing is granted . 
When payment is due . 
If your computation on Form 1040 or Form 1040A shows you owe additional tax , it should be remitted with your return unless you owe less than $1 , in which case it is forgiven . 
If payment is by cash , you should ask for a receipt . 
If you file Form 1040A and the District Director computes your tax , you will be sent a bill if additional tax is due . 
This bill should be paid within 30 days . 
Payment by check or money order . 
Whether the check is certified or uncertified , the tax is not paid until the check is paid . 
If the check is not good and the April 15 or other due date deadline elapses , additions to the tax may be incurred . 
Furthermore , a bad check may subject the maker to certain penalties . 
All checks and money orders should be made payable to Internal Revenue Service . 
Refunds . 
An overpayment of income and social security taxes entitles you to a refund unless you indicate on the return that the overpayment should be applied to your succeeding year's estimated tax . 
If you file Form 1040A and the District Director computes your tax , any refund to which you are entitled will be mailed to you . 
If you file a Form 1040 , you should indicate in the place provided that there is an overpayment of tax and the amount you want refunded and the amount you want credited against your estimated tax . 
Refunds of less than $1 will not be made unless you attach a separate application to your return requesting such a refund . 
Where to file . 
Send your return to the Director of Internal Revenue for the district in which you have your legal residence or principal place of business . 
If you have neither a legal residence nor a principal place of business in any Internal Revenue district , your return should be filed with the District Director of Internal Revenue , Baltimore 2 , Md. . 
If your principal place of abode for the tax year is outside the United States ( including Alaska and Hawaii ) , Puerto Rico , or the Virgin Islands and you have no legal residence or principal place of business in any Internal Revenue district in the United States , you should file your return with the Office of International Operations , Internal Revenue Service , Washington 25 , D.C. . 
Adjusted gross income . 
The deductions allowed in determining Adjusted Gross Income put all taxpayers on a comparable basis . 
It is the amount you enter on line 9 , page 1 of Form 1040 . 
Some deductions are subtracted from Gross Income to determine Adjusted Gross Income . 
Other deductions are subtracted only from Adjusted Gross Income in arriving at Taxable Income . 
To compute your adjusted gross income you total all items of income . 
( See Chapter 6 . 
) From this amount deduct the items indicated below . 
Businessmen deduct all ordinary and necessary expenses attributable to a trade or business . 
Rents or royalties . 
If you hold property for the production of rents or royalties you subtract , in computing Adjusted Gross Income , ordinary and necessary expenses and certain other deductions attributable to the property . 
( See Chapter 15 . 
) Outside salesmen deduct all expenses attributable to earning a salary , commission , or other compensation . 
( See Chapter 10 . 
) Employees deduct expenses of travel , meals and lodging while away from home in connection with the performance of their services as employees . 
They also deduct transportation expenses incurred in connection with the performance of services as employees even though they are not away from home . 
( See Chapter 12 . 
) If your employer reimburses you for expenses incurred , you deduct such expenses if they otherwise qualify . 
( See Chapter 10 . 
) Sick pay , if included in your Gross Income , is deducted in arriving at Adjusted Gross Income . 
If your sick pay is not included in your Gross Income , you may not deduct it . 
( See Chapter 9 . 
) income from estates and trusts . 
If you are a life tenant , you deduct allowable depreciation and depletion . 
If you are an income beneficiary of property held in trust or an heir , legatee , or devisee , you may deduct allowable depreciation and depletion , if not deductible by the estate or trust . 
Deductible losses on sales or exchanges of property are allowable in determining your Adjusted Gross Income . 
( See Chapter 20 . 
) 50% of capital gains . 
You also deduct 50% of the excess of net long-term capital gains over net short-term capital losses in determining Adjusted Gross Income . 
( See Chapter 24 . 
) other deductions . 
Certain other deductions are not allowed in determining Adjusted Gross Income . 
They may be claimed only by itemizing them on page 2 of Form 1040 . 
These deductions may not be claimed if you elect to use the Standard Deduction or Tax Table . 
( See Chapters 30 through 37 . 
) 2 . 
Minors minors must also file returns if they earn $600 or more during the year . 
A minor is subject to tax on his own earnings even though his parent may , under local law , have the right to them and might actually have received the money . 
His income is not required to be included in the return of his parent . 
A minor child is allowed A personal exemption of $600 on his own return regardless of how much money he may earn . 
Exemption also allowed parent . 
If your child is under 19 or is a student you may also claim an exemption for him if he qualifies as your dependent , even though he earns $600 or more . 
See Chapter 5 . 
Example . 
Your 16 year old son earned $720 in 1961 . 
You spent $800 for his support . 
Since he had gross income of $600 or more , he must file a return in which he may claim an exemption deduction of $600 . 
Since you contributed more than half of his support , you may also claim an exemption for him on your return . 
He may get a tax refund . 
A minor who has gross income of less than $600 is entitled to a refund if income tax was withheld from his wages . 
Generally , the refund may be obtained by filing Form 1040A accompanied by the withholding statement ( Form W-2 ) . 
If he had income other than wages subject to withholding , he may be required to file Form 1040 . 
See Chapter 1 . 
If your child works for you , you may deduct reasonable wages you paid to him for services he rendered in your business . 
You may deduct these payments even though your child uses the money to purchase his own clothing or other necessities which you are normally obligated to furnish him , and even though you may be entitled to his services . 
The one- or two-season hunt , of which there have been too many recently , may do more harm than good ; ; for such programs raise hopes of assistance toward achieving excellence in scholarship and the arts which are dashed when the programs are discontinued ; ; and they are dashed , no less , by lack of skill in making selections of men and women for development toward the highest reaches of the mind and spirit . 
For the making of selections on the basis of excellence requires that any foundation making the selections shall have available the judgments of a corps of advisors whose judgments are known to be good : such judgments can be known to be good only by the records of those selected , by records made subsequent to their selection over considerable periods of time . 
The central group of the Foundation's advisors are , at any one period of time , the members of our Advisory Board , consisting , now , of thirty-six men and women . 
They are chosen by the Foundation's Board of Trustees on the bases of their own first-rate accomplishments in their different fields of scholarship and the arts . 
Their locations in all parts of the United States , and their locations in the several kinds of educational and research institutions that are the principal homes of our intellectual and artistic strengths also are factors in the Trustees' minds . 
For this concept of an Advisory Board , ancillary to the Board of Trustees , we are indebted to the late President of Harvard University , A. Lawrence Lowell , a master of the subject of the structure of cultural institutions and their administration . 
That we had the wit and wisdom to adopt Mr. Lowell's concept and make it the base for our processes of selection is one reason why our selections have been , it may be said truly , pretty uniformly good . 
For , in accordance with Mr. Lowell's concept of an advisory board , our selections are made by experienced selectors who give both constancy and consistency to our processes and our choices . 
And lest we should become too consistent , in the sense of becoming heedless of new fields of scholarship and new points of view in the arts , the Foundation's Board of Trustees maintains a trickle -- not a flow ! 
-- of new members through the Advisory Board . 
Two committees of members of the Advisory Board constitute the committees of selection -- one for the selection of Fellows from Canada , the United States , and the English-speaking Caribbean area and one for the selection of Fellows from the Latin American republics and the Republic of the Philippines . 
To the members of our Advisory Board , and most specially to its members who constitute our committees of selection , the Foundation is indebted for its successes of choice of Fellows . 
We are , as we know , utterly dependent on the quality of advice we get ; ; and quality of advice , added to devotion to the Foundation's purposes and ideals , we do get from our Advisory Board in measures so full that they can be appreciated only by those of us who work here every day . 
But the facts about our Advisory Board and its members' duties are only one of several sets of facts about the quest for advice , both reliable and imaginative , on which to base our selections of Fellows . 
For example , the interest of past members of the Foundation's Advisory Board remains such that they place their knowledge and judgments at our disposal much as they had done when they were , formally , members of that Board . 
And , besides , there are a large number of scholars , artists , composers of music , novelists , poets , essayists , choreographers , lawyers , servants of government , and men of affairs -- hundreds , indeed -- who serve the Foundation well with the advice they give us freely and gratis out of their experience . 
To all , the Foundation gives the kind of thanks which are more than thanks : to them we are grateful beyond the possibility of conveying in words how grateful we are . 
It is a truism of business that no business can be better than its board of directors and its top management . 
The same is true of every foundation . 
During the biennium reviewed in this Report , our Board of Trustees named able men , younger than the rest of us , to the Board and to top management to insure future continuance of the first-class administration of the Foundation's affairs : Dr. James Brown Fisk , physicist , President of the Bell Telephone Laboratories , was elected to the Board of Trustees . 
He is a member both of the National Academy of Sciences and of the American Philosophical Society ; ; and he has served our country well as a scientific statesman on international commissions . 
Dr. Gordon N. Ray , Provost , Vice-President and Professor of English in the University of Illinois , was appointed Associate Secretary General . 
The Trustees of the Foundation appointed Dr. Ray to that position with the stated expectation that he would succeed the present Secretary General upon the latter's eventual retirement . 
Dr. Ray is a Fellow of the Foundation -- appointed thrice to assist his studies of William Makepeace Thackeray and of H. G. Wells -- and , before his appointment to the Foundation's executive staff , had been given our highest scholarly accolade , appointment to the Advisory Board . 
Referring further to the Foundation's officers , Dr. James F. Mathias , for eleven years our discerning colleague as Associate Secretary , was promoted to be Secretary . 
He is a historian , with the great merit of a historian's long view . 
Also appointed to the Foundation's staff , as Assistant Secretary , is Mr. J. Kellum Smith , Jr. . 
Mr. Smith , like the present Secretary General , is a lawyer ; ; and lawyers -- with the great virtues that they are trained to read `` the fine print '' carefully and are able out of professional experience to arrive at imaginative solutions to difficult problems in many fields -- are indispensable even in a foundation office . 
The present Secretary General has been the Foundation's principal administrative officer continuously since the Foundation's establishment thirty-five years ago . 
But even he will not last indefinitely and the above-noted new arrangements are , quite simply , made to assure qualitative continuity in the Foundation's policies and practices . 
The effective recognition of excellence and its nurture has to be learned and is not learned in a day , nor even in a year . 
We are not given to lamentations , neither personally nor in these Reports . 
On the contrary , if this be an apocalyptic era as is commonly said , we see it as an era of opportunity . 
For , granting that there are great present-day problems to be solved , these problems make great demands ; ; and by their demanding tend to create resources of men's minds and hearts which problems with easy answers do not bring forth . 
Of this , examples are legion : Pericles speaking his funeral oration in Ancient Greece's extremity after Thermopylae and making it a testament of freedom ; ; Jefferson writing the Declaration of Independence amid the catastrophes of revolution ; ; Christ preaching the Sermon on the Mount , close to his ultimate sacrifice ; ; Shakespeare speaking with `` the indescribable gusto of the Elizabethan voice '' -- ; ; Keats's words -- in the days of the Spanish Armada's threats ; ; Isaac Newton , at the age of twenty-three , industriously calculating logarithms `` to two and fifty places '' during the great plague year in England , 1665 ; ; Winston Churchill's Olympian , optimistic and resolute sayings when Britain stood alone against the armed forces of tyranny less than twenty years ago ; ; the present-day explorations of outer space , answering age-old questions of science and philosophy , in the face of possible wars of extinction . 
Forsan et haec olim meminisse iuvabit , as the Roman poet , Virgil , declared with much more historical sense than most writers of today . 
It gives , indeed , cause for rejoicing to remember what many catastrophes of the past produced ; ; and it is to be noted also that confidence should grow from remembering that great men often appeared in the past to turn local catastrophe into future good for all mankind . 
For example , out of the social evils of the English industrial revolution came the novels of Charles Dickens ; ; and his genius moved his readers to seek solutions of those evils for all Western men -- until today -- , in the industrialized West , these social evils substantially do not exist . 
The solutions were not arrived at by any theoreticians of the Karl Marx stripe but by men of government -- lawyers , most of them -- and men of business . 
These were educated men , who , as Mr. Justice Holmes was fond of saying , formed their inductions out of experience under the burden of responsibility . 
That is , to put it realistically , they had to run their businesses at a profit , or they had to get the votes to get elected . 
Nevertheless , they made naught of Marx's prophecy that capitalism would never pay the `` workers '' -- to use Marx's word -- more than a subsistence wage , with the consequence that increased productivity must inevitably find its way into the capitalists' pockets with the result , in turn , that the gap between the rich and the poor would irrevocably widen and the misery of the poor increase . 
But as all understand who have eyes to see , nothing of the kind has happened ; ; indeed , the contrary has happened . 
The gulf between the `` rich '' and the `` poor '' has narrowed , in the industrialized Western world , to the point that the word `` poor '' is hardly applicable . 
And the reason this could happen is clear : men of government , business men , lawyers and all who concerned themselves with the welfare of their fellow men did not let their concern to run their businesses at a profit restrict the development of freedom and opportunity . 
Some would say that they were not permitted to run their businesses only for profit ; ; and even putting it that way would not prove that Marx was anything but wrong . 
Sir Henry Sumner Maine , a hundred years before Communism was a force to be reckoned with , wrote his brilliant legal generalization , that `` the progress of society is from status to contract '' . 
The essence of contract is that one is free to make a choice of what one will or will not do . 
Hence , the condition of freedom is a necessary condition for choice . 
The greater the range of freedom for individual men , the greater the range of choice ; ; the greater the range of choice , the greater the rate of change . 
For change is dependent on the possibilities that individual men glimpse for the future . 
But when there is not freedom and opportunity to choose , men -- individual men -- must remain in status and society does not , cannot , progress . 
The eternal truth is that progress -- due , as it always is , to individual creative genius -- is just as dependent on freedom as human life is dependent on the beating of the heart . 
And lest anybody think that considerations such as these are not germane in a foundation report , let me enlighten them with the truths that , under Communism there would have been no capital with which to endow the Foundation , and that there would not be that individual freedom within which the Fellows might proceed , untrammeled in every way , toward their discoveries , their creative efforts for the good of mankind . 
During the year 1959 , we granted 354 Fellowships ; ; in 1960 , we granted 334 . 
As heretofore , our Fellowships are available to assist research in all fields of knowledge and creative effort in all the arts . 
We do not favor one field over another : we think that all inquiry , all scholarly and artistic creation , is good -- provided only that it contributes to a sense and understanding of the true ends of life , as all first-rate scholarship and artistic creation does . 
Indeed , if pressed , we would say what the late Robert Henri , American painter , said to a pupil , `` Anything will do for a subject : it's what you do with it that counts '' . 
Thus , we have no part , and want none , in current discussions of the relative importance of science , the social studies , the humanities , the creative arts . 
We want no part in such discussions , because we think them largely futile ; ; and we think them largely futile because , for true excellence of accomplishment , every scholar and every artist must cross boundaries of knowledge and boundaries of points of view . 
When the Brown & Sharpe Manufacturing Company reached its 125th year as a going industrial concern during 1958 , it became an almost unique institution in the mechanical world . 
With its history standing astride all but the very beginnings of the industrial revolution , Brown & Sharpe has become over the years a singular monument to the mechanical foresight of its founder , Joseph R. Brown , and a world-renowned synonym for precision and progress in metalworking technology . 
Joseph R. Brown grew up in the bustle and enterprise of New England between 1810 and 1830 . 
He was early exposed to the mechanical world , and in his youth often helped his father , David Brown , master clock and watchmaker , as he plied his trade . 
At the age of 17 he became an apprentice machinist at the shop of Walcott & Harris in Valley Falls , Rhode Island , and following two or three other jobs in quick succession after graduation , he went into business for himself in 1831 , making lathes and small tools . 
This enterprise led to a father-and-son combination beginning in 1833 , under the name D. Brown & Son , a business which eventually grew into the modern corporation we now call Brown & Sharpe . 
The years of Joseph's partnership with his father were numbered . 
In 1838 , a devastating fire gutted their small shop and soon thereafter David Brown moved west to Illinois , settling on a land grant in his declining years . 
Joseph Brown continued in business by himself , quickly rebuilding the establishment which had been lost in the fire and beginning those first steps which were to establish him as a pioneer in raising the standards of accuracy of machine shop practice throughout the world . 
Much of his genius , of course , sprang from his familiarity with clock movements . 
During these early years the repair of watches and clocks and the building of special clocks for church steeples formed an important part of the young man's occupation . 
He became particularly interested in graduating and precision measurement during the 1840's , and his thinking along these lines developed considerably during this period . 
But his business also grew , and we are told that Mr. Brown found it increasingly difficult to devote as much time to his creative thinking as his inclinations led him to desire . 
It must have been with some pleasure and relief that on September 12 , 1848 , Joseph Brown made the momentous entry in his job book , in his characteristically cryptic style , `` Lucian Sharpe came to work for me this day as an apprentice '' . 
The young apprentice apparently did well by Mr. Brown , for in the third year of his apprenticeship Lucian was offered a full partnership in the firm ; ; the company became `` J. R. Brown & Sharpe '' , and entered into a new and important period of its development . 
Mr. Sharpe's arrival in the business did indeed provide what Mr. Brown had most coveted -- time for `` tinkering '' , and the opportunity of carrying out in the back room those developments in precision graduation which most interested him at that time . 
By 1853 , the new partnership announced the precision vernier caliper as the first fruit of their joint efforts . 
The basic significance of this invention helped them to follow it rapidly in 1855 by the development of a unique precision gear cutting and dividing engine . 
That development , in turn , formed the foundation of still more significant expansions in later years -- in gear cutting , in circular graduating , in index drilling , and in many other fields where accuracy was a paramount requirement . 
Throughout their careers , both Mr. Brown and Mr. Sharpe were interested in the problem of setting up standards of measurement for the mechanical trades . 
Several efforts were made in this direction , and though not all of them survive to this day , the Brown & Sharpe wire gage system was eventually adopted as the American standard and is still in common use today . 
As one development followed another , the company's reputation for precision in the graduating field brought it broader and broader opportunities for expansion in precision manufacture . 
In 1858 , the partnership began manufacturing the Willcox & Gibbs sewing machine . 
As the story goes , Mr. Gibbs , who originally came from the back counties of the Commonwealth of Virginia , saw an illustration in a magazine of the famous Howe sewing machine . 
Curious as to what made it work , he built a crude model of it in wood , and filed a piece of steel until he succeeded in making a metal pickup for the thread , enabling the crude machine to take stitches . 
When he showed this model as his `` solution '' as to how the Howe sewing machine operated , he was told he was `` wrong '' , and discovered to his amazement that the Howe Machine , which was unknown to him in detail , used two threads while the one that he had perfected used only one . 
Thus was invented the single thread sewing machine , which Mr. Gibbs in partnership with Mr. Willcox decided to bring to Brown & Sharpe with the proposal that the small company undertake its manufacture . 
The new work was a boon to the partnership , not only for its own value but particularly for the stimulation it provided to the imagination of J. R. Brown toward yet further developments for production equipment . 
The turret screw machine , now known as the Brown & Sharpe hand screw machine , takes its ancestry directly from Mr. Brown's efforts to introduce equipment to simplify the manufacture of the sewing machine . 
Mr. Brown made important additions to the arts in screw machine design by drastically improving the means for revolving the turret , by introducing automatic feeding devices for the stock , and reversible tap and die holders . 
In 1861 , Mr. Brown's attention was called to yet another basic production problem -- the manufacture of twist drills . 
At that time , during the Civil War , Union muskets were being manufactured in Providence and the drills to drill them were being hand-filed with rattail files . 
This process neither satisfied the urgent production schedules nor Mr. Brown's imagination of the possibilities in the situation . 
The child of this problem was Mr. Brown's famous Serial No. 1 Universal Milling Machine , the archtype from which is descended today's universal knee-type milling machine used throughout the world . 
The original machine , bearing its famous serial number , is still on exhibition at the Brown & Sharpe Precision Center in Providence . 
During the Civil War period Mr. Brown also invented the Brown & Sharpe formed tooth gear cutter , a basic invention which ultimately revolutionized the world's gear manufacturing industry by changing its basic economics . 
Up until that time it had been possible to make cutters for making gear teeth , but they were good for only one sharpening . 
As soon as the time came for re-sharpening , the precise form of the gear tooth was lost and a new cutter had to be made . 
This process made the economical manufacture of gears questionable until some way could be found to permit the repeated re-sharpening of gear tooth cutters without the loss of the precision form . 
Mr. Brown's invention achieved this and , as a byproduct , formed the cornerstone of Brown & Sharpe's position of leadership in the gear making equipment field which lasted until the 1920's when superceded by other methods . 
The micrometer caliper , as a common workshop tool , also owes much to J. R. Brown . 
Although Mr. Brown was not himself its inventor ( it was a French idea ) , it is typical that his intuition first conceived the importance of mass producing this basic tool for general use . 
So it was that when Mr. Brown and Mr. Sharpe first saw the French tool on exhibition in Paris in 1868 , they brought a sample with them to the United States and started Brown & Sharpe in yet another field where it retains its leadership to this day . 
The final achievement of Mr. Brown's long and interesting mechanical career runs a close second in importance to his development of the universal milling machine . 
That achievement was his creation of the universal grinding machine , which made its appearance in 1876 at the Philadelphia Centennial Exposition . 
This machine , like its milling counterpart , was the antecedent of a machine-family used to this very day in precision metalworking shops throughout the world . 
Along with J. R. Brown's other major developments , the universal grinding machine was profoundly influential in setting the course of Brown & Sharpe for many years to come . 
Following Mr. Brown's death , there came forward in the Brown & Sharpe organization many other men who contributed greatly to the development of the company . 
One such man was Samuel Darling . 
As head of the firm Darling & Swartz , Mr. Darling began by challenging Brown & Sharpe to its keenest competition during the 1850's and early 60's . 
In 1868 , however , a truce was called between the companies , and the partnership of Darling , Brown & Sharpe was formed . 
Between that year and the buying out of Mr. Darling's interest in 1892 , a large portion of the company's precision tool business was carried out under the name of Darling , Brown & Sharpe , and to this day many old precision tools are in use still bearing that famous trademark . 
Perhaps the outstanding standard bearer of Mr. Brown's tradition for accuracy was Mr. Oscar J. Beale , whose mechanical genius closely paralleled that of Mr. Brown , and whose particular forte was the development of the exceedingly accurate measuring machinery that enabled Brown & Sharpe to manufacture gages , and therefore its products , with an accuracy exceeding anything then available elsewhere in the world . 
Also important on the Brown & Sharpe scene , at the turn of the century , was Mr. Richmond Viall , Works Superintendent of the company from 1876 to 1910 . 
Mr. Viall possessed remarkable talents for the leadership and development of men . 
He was an ardent champion of the Brown & Sharpe Apprentice Program and personal counselor to countless able men who first developed their industrial talents with the company . 
In one sense it can be said that one of the most important Brown & Sharpe products over the years has been the men who began work with the company and subsequently came to places of industrial eminence throughout the nation and even abroad . 
Commencing with the death of Lucian Sharpe in 1899 , the name of Henry D. Sharpe was for more than 50 years closely interwoven with the destiny of the company . 
During his presidency , the company's physical plant was enormously expanded , and the length and breadth of the Brown & Sharpe machine tool line became the greatest in the world . 
During the early part of this century , the Brown & Sharpe works in Providence were unchallenged as the largest single manufacturing facility devoted exclusively to precision machinery and tool manufacture anywhere in the world . 
During these years the company's product line followed the basic tenets laid down by Mr. Brown . 
It expanded from hand screw machines to automatic screw machines , from simple formed-tooth gear cutting machines to gear hobbing machines and a large contract gear manufacturing business , from rudimentary belt-driven universal milling machines to a broad line of elaborately controlled knee-type and manufacturing type milling machines . 
In the grinding machine field , expansion went far from universal grinders alone and took in cylindrical grinders , surface grinders , and a wide variety of special and semi-special models . 
In 1951 , Henry D. Sharpe , Jr. succeeded his father and continued the company's development as a major factor in the metal-working equipment business . 
The company is still broadening its line and is now active on four major fronts . 
The Machine Tool Division is currently producing Brown & Sharpe single spindle automatic screw machines , grinding machines of many types , and knee and bed-type milling machines . 
Recently added is the Brown & Sharpe turret drilling machine which introduces the company to an entirely new field of tool development . 
In the Industrial Products Division , the company manufactures and markets a wide line of precision gaging and inspection equipment , machinists' tools -- including micrometers , Vernier calipers , and accessories . 
In the Cutting Tool Division , the principal products include a wide variety of high speed steel milling cutters , end mills and saws . 
Sales and net income for the year ended December 31 , 1960 showed an improvement over 1959 . 
Net income was $2,557,111 , or $3.11 per share on 821,220 common shares currently outstanding , as compared to $2,323,867 or $2.82 per share in 1959 , adjusted to the same number of shares . 
Sales and other operating income increased 25.1% from $24,926,615 in 1959 to $31,179,816 in 1960 . 
This increase was sufficient to overcome the effect on net income of higher costs of manufacture and increased expenditures on research and development . 
In spite of the fact that our largest market , the textile industry , was affected substantially by the current decline in business activity , we have been able to produce and deliver our machines throughout the year 1960 at a rate materially higher than during 1959 . 
Outlook for current year Our current rate of incoming orders has now contracted and unless this trend can be reversed , our production for 1961 will be lower than for 1960 . 
However , the healthy inventory position of the textile industry lends support to the broadly expressed belief that improvement in that industry can be expected by the second half of 1961 . 
Need for sound tax policy In connection with our continuing development of new and more efficient mill machinery , a sounder U. S. income tax policy on depreciation of production equipment , enabling the mills to charge off the cost of new machines on a more realistic basis , could , if adopted , have favorable effects on Leesona's business in the next few years . 
Such a depreciation policy would also , we believe , prove a very important factor in strengthening the competitive position of the U. S. textile and other industries , thus helping to strengthen the position of the dollar in foreign exchange . 
Research and development Our research and development program , serving as it does an industry which must compete against low-cost production throughout the world , continues to have primary emphasis at Leesona . 
This program is based on the policy of designing and building efficient machines which will help produce better textile values -- fabrics whose cost in relation to quality , fashion and utility provide the consumer with better textile products for the money . 
Such policy involves continuing effort to improve on existing mill equipment , in terms of efficiency and versatility . 
But more important , we believe , it must concentrate on the development of entirely new concepts in textile processing as do the Unifil loom winder and our more recent Uniconer automatic coning machine . 
Budget increased On this basis , our already substantial budget for research and development has been further increased in recent years in order to finance the continuing engineering and design work essential to Leesona's future growth in sales and earnings . 
Much of this necessary increase in research and development , though properly chargeable to current expenses , is not reflected in earnings until projects are completed and the new machines sold in quantity , usually over a period of several years . 
Stretch yarn machines In December we began to ship our ultra-high-speed stretch yarn machines . 
These machines produce the higher quality stretch yarns required in weaving stretch and textured fabrics . 
During the past year , great progress has been made by the weaving mills in creating new stretch and textured fabrics . 
Fashion centers are now predicting broad acceptance of sports apparel and improved `` wash and wear '' dresses and blouses made from these fabrics . 
This machine , operating at speeds up to 350,000 revolutions per minute , is believed to provide one of the fastest mechanical operations in industry today . 
It transfers yarn directly from the producers' largest package into ideal supply packages for use on Unifil loom winders in weaving stretch yarn fabrics . 
Large-package twister Our new large-package ring twister for glass fiber yarns is performing well in our customers' mills . 
Later in the year , additional types of this Leesona twister will be made available to mills for other man-made fibers and natural yarns . 
These machines are designed to provide higher operating speeds , larger yarn packages , and greater flexibility of application to different types of yarn . 
This we believe will substantially broaden the potential market for the equipment . 
Uniconer Major activity at Providence in 1961 will involve the scheduled completion of tooling for production of the Uniconer automatic coning machine . 
This work is progressing on schedule and we expect to make initial shipments in the fourth quarter of this year . 
This machine was demonstrated in two textile machinery exhibitions last year and was well received by the industry . 
The potential market for the machine should be comparable to that of the Unifil loom winder . 
The Uniconer has several outstanding features -- it operates with much greater efficiency than existing equipment ; ; it incorporates an automatic knot-tying device on each spindle , and it will knot a break in the yarn in 10 seconds as well as tie in new bobbins as the running end is exhausted . 
Because the bobbin-to-cone winding process is a relatively high-cost operation for the mill , the almost complete automation provided by the Uniconer can mean important economies in textile production , at the same time upgrading quality . 
Many mills have already placed firm orders for this machine . 
New Unifil application A new application for the Unifil loom winder , running single filling for box looms , will broaden mill use of this equipment . 
Take-up machines A new spinning take-up machine has been developed to facilitate the use of our take-up machine in the production of thermoplastic yarns . 
It is equipped with electronic controls that can be set to hold precise tension and speed . 
This new machine takes up filament yarn from spinneret or extruder and winds large packages at speeds up to 6,000 feet per minute . 
It is equipped with an automatic threading device to reduce waste and handling time . 
Our take-up machines and our twister-coners are undergoing important pilot plant testing for application with new high polymer yarns , in several fiber producing plants . 
We look forward to a stronger position in this expanding field . 
Diversification plans We are interested in further diversification into other fields of capital goods , or components for industrial products , and have recently intensified our efforts in that direction . 
Patterson Moos research Our Patterson Moos Research Division has made further very encouraging progress in development of fuel cells . 
The cooperation of our exclusive American licensee , Pratt & Whitney Aircraft Division of United Aircraft Corporation , has been important in this work . 
In addition to its major effort on fuel cells , Patterson Moos Research Division is continuing to carry on research in other fields , both under contract for the Defense Department , other government agencies and for our own account . 
PMR is currently supplying components vital to the Titan and Minuteman programs . 
We have recently entered into an agreement with Compagnie Generale De Telegraphie Sans Fil ( CSF ) of France for the exclusive exchange of technical information on thermoelectric materials . 
The agreement gives us rights for manufacturing and marketing of such materials in the United States . 
Initially we will import the thermoelectric materials and modules from France but later we will manufacture in this country . 
There is a rapidly growing demand for this material , primarily from the military . 
Further research , we believe , will develop important commercial applications . 
A project for the Air Force has been completed in which the NAIR infrared detecting device was developed for area monitoring of noxious or dangerous gases . 
We are initiating research on the use of solid state materials for infrared detection using a method which will not require cooling of materials to attain high sensitivity . 
The rapid advance in science today suggests many other avenues of investigation . 
Our plan is to keep abreast of these advances , and select for development those fields which seem most promising for our special capabilities . 
New plant facilities Early in August we broke ground for a new $3,500,000 plant in Warwick , Rhode Island , which will house our textile and coil winding machinery operations . 
Construction is well along , and the plant is scheduled for completion in November of this year . 
All operations now carried on at our plant at Cranston will be transferred to Warwick . 
Operations in the new plant should be producing efficiently early in 1962 . 
An architect's sketch of the new plant is shown on the front cover . 
The building will contain 430,000 square feet , approximately the same as our present plant . 
However , its modern one-story layout is designed to increase our production capacity , permit more efficient manufacturing , and substantially reduce current repair and maintenance costs . 
A major consideration in the choice of the Warwick site , four miles from Cranston , was the fact that it permits retention of our present trained and highly skilled work force . 
We have entered into an agreement for the sale of the present Cranston properties , effective as soon as we have completed removal to our new plant . 
British subsidiary During the year our British subsidiary , Leesona-Holt , Limited , expanded its plant in Darwen , England , and added machine tool capacity . 
The operations of its other plant in Rochdale and Leesona's former operations in Manchester were transferred to a recently acquired plant in the adjoining town of Heywood . 
Layout and equipment were modernized and improved to obtain increased production on an efficient basis . 
The area available at Heywood is approximately three times the size of the former Rochdale and Manchester locations . 
In addition , land has been purchased to permit doubling the size of the plant in the future . 
Financial developments The new Warwick plant is being built at our expense and under our direction . 
It will be transfered on completion to The Industrial Foundation of Rhode Island , a non-profit organization , which will reimburse us for the cost of construction . 
We will then occupy the new plant under lease , with an option to purchase . 
These arrangements are , in our opinion , very favorable to Leesona . 
Interim financing of construction costs is provided by a short term loan from The Chase Manhattan Bank . 
In addition to expenditures on the Warwick plant , we have invested approximately $1,961,000 for machinery and equipment at Cranston , and for new machinery , plant and equipment at Leesona-Holt , Limited . 
We believe that these improved facilities will contribute income and effect savings which will fully justify the investment . 
Long term loans have been reduced by $395,000 to $2,461,000 . 
Inventories increased $625,561 to $8,313,514 during the year and should decline in coming months . 
Thus we enter 1961 in a strong financial position . 
Employee contracts In accordance with the two-year contract signed in May , 1959 , with the International Association of Machinists , AFL-CIO , wages of hourly employees were increased by 4% in May , 1960 , and pay levels for non-exempt salaried employees were increased proportionately . 
In addition , Blue Cross coverage for all employees and their dependents was extended to provide the full cost of semi-private hospital accommodations . 
Personnel benefits In addition to direct salaries and wages , the Company paid or accrued during the year the following amounts for the benefit of employees : During the pension year ended December 31 , 1960 , 23 employees retired , making a total of 171 currently retired under the Company's pension plan . 
At December 13 , 1960 the fund held by the Industrial National Bank of Providence , as trustee for payment of past and future service pensions to qualified members of the plan , totaled $2,412,616 . 
The basic market for textiles is growing with the expansion of the population that began 20 years ago . 
Another growth factor is increased consumer demand for better quality and larger quantities of fabrics that go with a rising standard of living . 
As in many other industries , rising costs and intense competition , both domestic and foreign , have exerted increasing pressure on earnings of the textile industry in recent years . 
Increased efficiency In textiles , as elsewhere , a major part of the solution lies in greater efficiency and higher productivity . 
As a designer and manufacturer of textile production machinery , Leesona and other companies in its industry have sought to meet this challenge with new or improved equipment and methods that would increase production , yet maintain both quality and flexibility . 
Problems of shifting styles The problem of efficient production in textiles is complicated by the fact that the industry serves large markets which shift quickly with changes of fashion in apparel or home decoration . 
Production must be adjusted accordingly , at minimum cost and quickly . 
In addition , production machinery must in many cases be designed to handle with equal efficiency both natural fibers and the increasing number of synthetics , as well as blends . 
Following the term of service in Japan , each emissary returns for a brief visit to the campus to interpret his experience to the college community . 
The Carleton Service Fund provides the financial support for this program . 
Musical activities the college was one of the first to recognize the importance of music not only as a definite part of the curriculum but as a vital adjunct to campus life . 
Extensive facilities for group performance are provided by maintaining , under skilled direction , the Choir , the Orchestra , the Band , the Glee Club , and smaller ensembles of wind and string players . 
All students are invited to participate in any of the musical organizations for which they qualify . 
Orchestra , Band , and Choir have auditions during the week preceding the first day of classes . 
The Glee Club is open to all students and faculty with no auditions necessary for membership . 
In addition to the many appearances of these organizations throughout the college year , there are concerts by students of the music department , by members of the music faculty , and by visiting artists . 
Student musical organizations are the Knights of Carleton and the Overtones ( men's vocal groups ) , and the Keynotes ( a women's singing group ) . 
These student-directed organizations include eight to ten members each ; ; they perform at many campus social events . 
Religious activities from the founding of the College those responsible for its management have planned to provide its students favorable conditions for personal religious development and to offer opportunities through the curriculum and otherwise for understanding the meaning and importance of religion . 
Courses are offered in ethics , the philosophy and history of religion , Christian thought and history , and the Bible . 
Carleton aims throughout its entire teaching program to represent a point of view and a spirit which will contribute to the moral and religious development of its students . 
A college service of worship is held each Sunday morning at eleven o'clock in the Chapel . 
The sermons are given by the College Chaplain , by members of the faculty , or by guest preachers . 
Music is furnished by the Carleton College Choir . 
Chapel services are held weekly . 
These services at which attendance is voluntary are led by the Chaplain , by the President of the College , by selected faculty members , students , and visitors . 
The service is brief and variety in forms of worship is practiced . 
A Sunday evening program provides theological lectures , music , drama , and films related to the issues of the Judeo-Christian tradition . 
Attendance is required at the College Service of Worship or at the Sunday Evening Program or at any regularly organized service of public worship . 
Each semester every student must attend ten of the services or religious meetings . 
Attendance at the Chapel Service is voluntary . 
Religious organizations include the groups described below . 
The Y.M.C.A. and Y.W.C.A. at Carleton are connected with the corresponding national organizations and carry out their general purposes . 
Occasional meetings are held for the whole membership , usually with a guest speaker , while smaller discussion groups meet more frequently . 
The Associations sponsor many traditional campus events and provide students with opportunities to form new friendships , to broaden their interests , and to engage in worthwhile service projects . 
There are other organizations representing several of the denominational groups . 
Included are the following : Baptist Student Movement , Canterbury Club ( Episcopal ) , Christian Science Organization , Friends' Meeting for Worship , Hillel ( Jewish ) , Liberal Religious Fellowship , Lutheran Student Association , Newman Club ( Roman Catholic ) , Presbyterian Student Fellowship , United Student Fellowship ( Congregational-Baptist ) , and Wesley Fellowship ( Methodist ) . 
Student religious organizations are co-ordinated under the Religious Activities Committee , a standing committee of the Carleton Student Association . 
The Northfield churches include the following : Alliance , Congregational-Baptist , Episcopal , Lutheran ( Norwegian , Danish , Missouri Synod , and Bethel ) , Methodist , Moravian , Pentecostal , and Roman Catholic . 
Theater the purpose of producing plays at the College is three-fold : to provide the Carleton students with the best possible opportunity for theater-going within the limits set by the maturity and experience of the performers and the theatrical facilities available ; ; to encourage the practice of attending the theater ; ; and to develop a discriminating audience for good drama and sensitive performance . 
Dramatic activity at the College is organized and carried on by The Carleton Players , which is to say by all students who are so inclined to advance these aims . 
For the 1960-1961 season , The Carleton Players have announced Blood Wedding by Federico Garcia Lorca , The Knight Of The Burning Pestle by Beaumont and Fletcher and A Moon For The Misbegotten by Eugene O'Neill , with a pre-season production of The Glass Menagerie by Tennessee Williams . 
Student workshop this workshop , located in Boliou Hall , provides facilities for students to work in ceramics , weaving , enameling , welding , woodworking , textile printing , printmaking , and lapidary . 
These extra-curricular activities are conducted under supervision of the Director of the Student Workshop . 
The workshop is open five afternoons and two evenings each week . 
A student organization , Bottega , is open to any student interested in increasing his understanding and appreciation of the graphic and ceramic arts in their historical , technical , and productive contexts . 
The group meets once a week in the Boliou Student Workshop . 
They are assisted and advised by members of the Art Department . 
Athletics the Athletic program at Carleton is considered an integral part of the activities of the College and operates under the same budgetary procedure and controls as the academic work . 
The physical education program for men recognizes the value of participation in competitive sports in the development of the individual student and aims to give every man an opportunity to enter some form of athletic competition , either intercollegiate or intramural . 
The same standards for admission , for eligibility to receive scholarships or grants-in-aid , and for scholastic performance at college apply to all students . 
A faculty committee on athletics , responsible to the faculty as a whole , exercises control over the athletic program of the College . 
It concerns itself with : 1 . 
The policies which govern the program 2 . 
The preservation of desirable balance between the athletic and academic programs of the College 3 . 
The approval of athletic schedules 4 . 
The maintenance of Midwest Conference eligibility standards Carleton is a member of the Midwest Collegiate Athletic Conference and abides by its eligibility rules . 
In addition to these rules , Carleton has added the following : 1 . 
A student who while in attendance at Carleton College participates in an athletic contest during the school year , other than that sponsored by the College , shall be permanently ineligible to participate in intercollegiate athletics at Carleton College and will also face permanent suspension from the institution . 
The school year does not end for any student until he has completed his last examination of the semester . 
2 . 
A student to be eligible for the captaincy of any Carleton team must have a scholastic record of at least 1.00 . 
The `` C '' club is composed of the men of the College who have won an official letter in Carleton athletics . 
The purpose of the Club is to promote better athletic teams at Carleton and to increase interest in them among the student body . 
This is done by encouraging the entire male student body to participate in either the intercollegiate or intramural sports program and by sponsoring the Carleton cheerleaders . 
Soccer Club . 
The Soccer Club was organized by undergraduate men interested in playing soccer and promoting the sport . 
Membership consists of both beginners and experienced players . 
Practices are held regularly and the schedule of games is prepared by the student coach and the officers of the club . 
Women's Recreation Association . 
This Association , organized in 1920 , is affiliated with the Athletic Federation of College Women . 
The purpose of the organization is to further the interest of women students in recreational activities as a means of promoting physical efficiency , sportsmanship , and `` play for play's sake '' . 
The Association is governed by a board made up of representatives from each of the four classes . 
Membership is open to any woman student in the College . 
Active groups sponsored by the organization include the Saddle Club , Orchesis , Golf Club , Tennis Club , and Dolphins . 
The Saddle Club , open to students proficient in horsemanship , presents the Annual Spring Riding Exhibition , and during the year it offers speakers , movies , breakfast rides , and trips to broaden their knowledge of the sport . 
Orchesis , for students interested in the modern dance , contributes to the May Fete and offers earlier in the year a modern dance demonstration . 
Tennis Club participates in a dual tennis tournament with the University of Minnesota each fall , and also sponsors a two-day state invitational tennis meet at Carleton in May . 
The Dolphins present a three-night water show the week of the May Fete . 
Under the auspices of the Women's Recreation Association , interclass competition is organized in badminton , basketball , field hockey , golf , tennis , and swimming . 
The Association participates in the winter sports carnival and sponsors several Play Days with St. Olaf and other nearby colleges . 
With the co-operation of the Department of Physical Education for Men , the Women's Recreation Association arranges mixed tournaments in tennis and golf in the fall and spring . 
Throughout the year there are social events , such as picnics , breakfast hikes , canoe trips , banquets , and indoor parties . 
College publications in addition to the miscellaneous pamphlets and other printed matter which it issues , the College maintains regular publications , as follows : The Bulletin , in five issues : The Report Of The President in August ; ; The Alumni Fund Report in September ; ; the Annual Catalog in March ; ; an Alumni Reunion Bulletin in April ; ; and a special Bulletin in June . 
The College also publishes each year The Report Of The Treasurer and a monthly newsletter entitled Carleton College Comments . 
In co-operation with the Alumni Association of Carleton College , an alumni magazine , The Voice Of The Carleton Alumni , is edited and mailed seven times a year by the College's Publications Office and the Alumni Office . 
At intervals an alumni directory is issued . 
These publications may be secured as follows : The Annual Catalog from the Director of Admissions and other issues from the Publications Office . 
In January , 1960 , the first issue of The Carleton Miscellany , a quarterly literary magazine , was published by the College . 
The magazine , edited by members of the Carleton Department of English , includes contributions by authors from both within and beyond the Carleton community . 
Student publications The Carletonian , the college newspaper , is edited by students and published by the College under the supervision of the Publications Board . 
( See page 100 . 
) It is issued weekly throughout the college year . 
The Publications Board holds annual competitive examinations for places on the editorial and business staffs . 
The editor , sports editor , and student business manager are chosen in December , the new staff assuming responsibility for the paper at the beginning of the second semester . 
The paper affords excellent practice for students interested in the field of journalism . 
The Algol , the college annual , is published in the fall of each year . 
The Algol serves as a record of campus organizations and student activities during the year . 
The Publications Board receives applications for the positions of editor and business manager and makes the appointments in the spring previous to the year of publication . 
Members of The Algol staff are nominated by the editor and business manager and appointed by the Publications Board . 
Manuscript , a quarterly literary magazine , is published by the students of the College . 
It is the purpose of this magazine to serve as an outlet for student creative writing . 
The editor and business manager of Manuscript are appointed by the Publications Board . 
Campus broadcasting station A low-power , `` carrier-current '' broadcasting station , KARL , heard only in the campus dormitories , is owned and operated by the students to provide an outlet for student dramatic , musical , literary , technical , and other talents , and to furnish information , music , and entertainment for campus listeners . 
Over a hundred students participate in the planning and production of the daily program schedule . 
KARL provides experience for students who wish to pursue careers in radio . 
Student government the Carleton Student Association includes all students in college and is intended `` to work for the betterment of Carleton College by providing student government and student participation with the college administration in the formulation and execution of policies which pertain to student life and activities '' . 
The Carleton Social Co-operative is a standing committee of the Carleton Student Association . 
Week-end activities for the entire campus are planned by the Co-op Board . 
In recent months , much attention has been given to the probable extent of the current downtrend in business and economists are somewhat divided as to the outlook for the near future . 
And yet , despite some disappointment with the performance of this first year of the new decade , 1960 has been a good year in many ways , with many overall measures of business having reached new peaks for the year as a whole . 
The shift in sentiment from excessive optimism early in the year to the present mood of caution has probably been a good thing , in that it has prevented the accumulation of the burdensome inventories that have characterized many previous swings in the business cycle . 
This caution has been particularly noticeable in a tendency of retailers and distributors to shift the inventory burden back on the supplier , and the fact stocks at retail are low in many lines has escaped attention because of the presence of higher stocks at the manufacturing level . 
In the electronics industry , this tendency is well illustrated by inventories of TV sets . 
Factory stocks in recent months have been the highest they have been in three years , while those at retail are below 1959 . 
The total value of our industry's shipments , at factory prices , increased from $9.2 billion in 1959 to approximately $10.1 billion as a result of increases in all of the major segments of our business -- home entertainment , military , industrial , and replacement . 
I believe a further gain is in prospect for 1961 . 
Home entertainment sales up Reflecting the largest percentage of high-end sets such as consoles and combinations since 1953 , dollar value of home entertainment electronics in 1960 was about $1.9 billion , compared to $1.7 billion in 1959 . 
Sales of TV sets at retail ran ahead of the like months of 1959 through July ; ; set production ( excluding those destined for the export market ) also ran ahead in the early months , but was curtailed after the usual vacation shutdowns in the face of growing evidence that some of the early production plans had been overly optimistic . 
For the year as a whole , retail sales of TV sets probably came to 5.8 million against 5.7 million in 1959 ; ; however , production came to only 5.6 million compared to 6.2 million . 
In contrast to the lower turnout of TV , total radio production increased from 15.4 million sets to 16.7 million ( excluding export ) . 
Both home and auto radios were in excellent demand , with retail sales of home sets ahead of 1959 in every month of the first eleven ; ; sales and production of home sets were about equal at 10.4 million units . 
Auto set production came to about 6.3 million compared to 5.6 million in 1959 . 
Separate phonographs also had a good year , reflecting the growing popularity of stereo sound and the same tendency on the part of the consumer to upgrade that characterized the radio-TV market . 
The outlook for entertainment electronics in 1961 is certainly far from clear at present , but recent surveys have shown a desire on the part of consumers to step up their buying plans for durable goods . 
I would expect that sales at retail in the first half of 1961 might be below 1960 by some 10 - 15% but that second-half levels should show a favorable comparison , with a possibility of quite strong demand late in the year if business conditions recover as some recent forecasts suggest they will . 
I look for TV sales and production to be approximately equal at 5.7 million sets for the year , but I look for some decline in radios from the high rate in 1961 to more nearly the 1959 level of 15.0 - 15.5 million sets . 
I therefore believe it is realistic to assume a modest drop in the total value of home entertainment electronics to about $1.8 million , slightly below 1960 , but above 1959 . 
Military electronics to grow 1960 witnessed another substantial increase in our industry's shipments of military electronics , which totalled about $5.4 billion compared to $4.9 billion in 1959 . 
It is interesting to note that the present level of military electronics procurement is greater than the industry's total sales to all markets in 1950-1953 , which were good years for our industry with television enjoying its initial period of rapid consumer acceptance . 
It has been correctly pointed out by well-informed people in the industry that it is probably unrealistic to expect a continuation of the yearly growth of 15% or better that characterized the decade of the 1950's , and that our military markets may be entering upon a new phase in which procurement of multiple weapons systems will give way to concentration of still undeveloped areas of our defense capability . 
While this may well be true in general , I believe it is also important to keep in mind that some recent developments suggest that over the next year or so military electronics may be one of the most strongly growing areas in an economy which is not expanding rapidly in other directions . 
Among the items scheduled for acceleration in the near future are the Polaris and B70 programs , strengthening of the airborne alert system of the Strategic Air Command , and improved battlefield surveillance systems . 
Research and development expenditures connected with the reconnaissance satellite SAMOS and the future development of ballistic missile defense systems such as Nike-Zeus are expected to increase substantially . 
Research , development test and evaluation funds , devoted to missiles in 1960 were 3 to 4 times as large as those devoted to aircraft , and actual missile procurement is expected to exceed aircraft procurement by 1963 . 
Still later , the realm of space technology will show substantial gains ; ; it has been estimated that spending by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration will rise from less than $500 million in fiscal 1960 to more than $2 billion by 1967 , and that the electronic industry's share of these expenditures will be closer to 50% than the current 20% . 
The stepped-up defense procurement called for in the 1961 Budget has already begun to make itself felt in an upturn in orders for military electronic equipment and the components that go into it , and it has been suggested that an additional $2 billion increase in total defense spending may be requested for fiscal 1962 . 
Although the impact of these increases on our industry's shipments will be gradual , on balance I look for another good increase in shipments in the coming year , to at least $6 billion . 
Industrial electronic equipment Paced by the continuing rapid growth of electronic data processing , sales of industrial and commercial electronic equipment totalled $1.8 billion compared to $1.6 billion in 1959 . 
The market for computers and other data-handling continues to expand at the rate of about 30% annually , reaching some $450 million in 1960 . 
Informed estimates look for this market to approximately quadruple by the late 1960's , under the stimulus of new applications in the fields of banking and retailing , industrial process control , and information storage and retrieval . 
In the industrial field , prospects for higher expenditures on electronic testing and measuring equipment are also quite bright . 
For the near term , however , it must be realized that the industrial and commercial market is somewhat more sensitive to general business conditions than is the military market , and for this reason I would expect that any gain in 1961 may be somewhat smaller than those of recent years ; ; sales should slightly exceed 1960 , however , and reach $1.9 billion . 
Replacement parts In addition to the three major original equipment segments of the electronics business , the steady growth in the market for replacement parts continues year by year . 
This is now a $1.0 billion business , up from $0.9 billion in 1959 , and should reach $1.1 billion in 1961 . 
The markets for electronic parts in 1960 have reflected the changing patterns of the various end equipment segments of the industry . 
Demand for parts for home entertainment was strong in the first half , but purchases were cut back to lower levels during the fall as set manufacturers reduced their own operating rates . 
In the military field , incoming orders turned down early in the year , and remained rather slow until late fall when the upturn in procurement of equipment began to make itself felt in rising orders for components . 
Sales of transistors in 1960 exceeded $300 million , compared to $222 million in 1959 despite substantial price reductions in virtually all types . 
Production totalled about 123 million units against 82 million in 1959 , and I look for a further gain to 188 million units worth approximately $380 million in 1961 . 
Sales of passive components , such as capacitors and resistors , although not growing as fast as those of semi-conductors were ahead of 1959 this year , and should increase again in 1961 . 
In sum , I look for another good year for the electronics industry in 1961 , with total sales increasing about 7% to $10.8 billion , despite the uncertainties in the business outlook generally . 
As I have indicated above , I base this feeling on a belief that current weakness in the market for consumer durable goods may continue through the early months of the year , but will give way to a sufficiently strong recovery later on to bring the full-year figures close to those of 1960 ; ; on prospects for continued increases in defense spending ; ; and on continued growth in the applications of electronics to the complex problems of manufacturing and trade in the expanding but competitive economy of the 1960's . 
The appointment of Gilbert B. Devey as General Manager of VecTrol Engineering , Inc. , of Stamford , Connecticut , a leading manufacturer of thyratron and silicon controlled rectifier electrical controls , has been announced by David B. Peck , Vice President , Special Products . 
Mr. Devey will be responsible for the commercial expansion of VecTrol's line of electronic and electrical power control components as furnished to end equipment manufacturers , working closely with Walter J. Brown , President and Director of Engineering of the recently acquired Sprague subsidiary . 
Mr. Brown will at the same time undertake expansion of VecTrol's custom design program for electronic control users with a greatly increased engineering staff . 
Mr. Devey's new responsibilities are in addition to those of his present post as marketing manager of Sprague's Special Products Group , which manufactures a wide line of digital electronic components , packaged component assemblies , and high temperature magnet wires . 
Mr. Devey first came to Sprague in 1953 as a Product Specialist in the Field Engineering Department , coming from the Office of Naval Research in Washington , D. C. , where he was an electronic scientist engaged in undersea warfare studies . 
During World War 2 , , he was a lieutenant commander in the United States Navy . 
Mr. Devey is a graduate of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , and attended the United States Naval Academy Post-Graduate School specializing in electronic engineering . 
He was named Product Manager of the Special Products Division of Sprague when it was founded in 1958 , and was later promoted to his present post . 
Mr. Devey is a member of the Institute of Radio Engineers , and is chairman of the Electronic Industries Association Committee on Printed and Modular Components . 
Mr. Brown , well-known , English-born inventor , prior to founding VecTrol was at various times section leader in radio research at Metropolitan Vickers Electrical Co. , Ltd. ; ; chief engineer of the radio set division of Electric and Musical Industries , Ltd. , the largest electronic equipment manufacturer in Great Britain ; ; director of engineering at Philco of Great Britain , Ltd. , and vice president in charge of production and assistant to the president at The Brush Development Co. , Cleveland , Ohio . 
He has a Bachelor of Science from the University of Manchester , England . 
Mr. Brown presently has over 130 patents to his credit dating back to 1923 . 
He is a fellow of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers , and a senior member of the Institute of Radio Engineers . 
He is a member of the Institution of Electrical Engineers , London , a registered professional engineer in Connecticut and Ohio , and a chartered electrical engineer in Great Britain . 
The promotion of Robert E. Swift to the position of Assistant Manager of the Interference Control Field Service Department was announced early in December by Frederick S. Scarborough , Manager of Interference Control Field Service . 
The appointment was made in a move to expand the engineering services offered to the designers of electronic systems through assistance in electro-magnetic compatability problems . 
Between meetings he helps the president keep track of delegated matters . 
Since these duties fit neatly with those of the proposed presidential aide , one person , with adequate staff assistance , could fill both jobs . 
Since faculty see themselves as self-employed professionals rather than as employees , enthusiasm in a common enterprise is proportionate to the sense of ownership they have in it by virtue of sharing in the decisions that govern its course . 
The faculty believes that broad autonomy is necessary to preserve its freedom in teaching and scholarship . 
The president expects faculty members to remember , in exercising their autonomy , that they share no collective responsibility for the university's income nor are they personally accountable for top-level decisions . 
He may welcome their appropriate participation in the determination of high policy , but he has a right to expect , in return , that they will leave administrative matters to the administration . 
How well do faculty members govern themselves ? 
There is little evidence that they are giving any systematic thought to a general theory of the optimum scope and nature of their part in government . 
They sometimes pay more attention to their rights than to their own internal problems of government . 
They , too , need to learn to delegate . 
Letting the administration take details off their hands would give them more time to inform themselves about education as a whole , an area that would benefit by more faculty attention . 
Although faculties insist on governing themselves , they grant little prestige to a member who actively participates in college or university government . 
There are , nevertheless , several things that the president can do to stimulate participation and to enhance the prestige of those who are willing to exercise their privilege . 
He can , for example , present significant university-wide issues to the senate . 
He can encourage quality in faculty committee work in various ways : by seeing to it that the membership of each committee represents the thoughtful as well as the action-oriented faculty ; ; by making certain that no faculty member has too many committee assignments ; ; by assuring good liaison between the committees and the administration ; ; by minimizing the number of committees . 
Despite the many avenues for the exchange of ideas between faculty and administration , complaints of a lack of communication persist . 
The cause is as often neglect as hesitance to disclose . 
A busy president , conversant with a problem and its ramifications and beset by pressures to meet deadlines , tends naturally to assume that others must be as familiar with a problem as he is . 
The need for interchange and understanding makes vital the full use of all methods of consultation . 
To increase faculty influence and decrease tension , many presidents have established a standing advisory committee with which they can discuss problems frankly . 
The president has little influence in day-by-day curricular changes , but if he looks ahead two , three , or five years to anticipate issues and throw out challenging ideas , he can open the way for innovation , and he can also have a great deal to say as to what path it will take . 
Success will require tact , sensitivity to faculty prerogatives , patience , and persistence . 
The critical task for every president and his academic administrative staff is to assure that the college or university continually rebuilds and regenerates itself so that its performance will match changing social demands . 
Great professors do not automatically reproduce themselves . 
Deans can form an important bridge between the president and the faculty . 
They serve not only as spokesmen for their areas , but they also contribute to top-level decision making . 
The president who appoints strong men who have an all-college or university point of view and a talent and respect for administration can count on useful assistance . 
Faculty members depend on their department chairmen to promote their interests with the administration . 
The administration at the same time , looks to the chairmen for strategic aid in building stronger departments . 
One way that this can be done , other than by hiring new high-priced professors , is by constantly encouraging the department members to raise their standards of performance . 
The quality of a president's leadership is measured first by his success in building up the faculty . 
By supporting the efforts of the many faculty members who are working to attain ever higher standards , the president can encourage faculty leadership . 
Indirectly he can best help them by insuring that rigorous criteria for appointment and promotion are clearly set forth and adhered to . 
The academic dean should take a direct , long-term interest in faculty development . 
An alert dean will confer all through the year on personnel needs , plans for the future , qualifications of those on the job , and bright prospects elsewhere . 
For the maintenance of a long-term program , the departments , and particularly their chairmen , are strategic . 
They evaluate and nominate candidates for appointment and promotion . 
To provide an independent judgment for the president , the academic dean also investigates candidates thoroughly . 
At some colleges and universities , a faculty committee reviews and reports to the administration on the qualifications of candidates . 
Some faculty members and many administrators oppose faculty review groups because they either repeat department's actions or act pro forma . 
They can be effective , however , if their members set high standards for candidates and devote substantial time to the work . 
At one university , the president cites the faculty review committee as `` a valued partner of the administration in guarding and promoting the quality of the faculty '' . 
Before the president recommends a candidate to the trustees , the administration collects the views of colleagues in the same field of knowledge on campus and elsewhere . 
The president or dean reads some of his publications to form the truest possible evaluation of the quality of his mind . 
No good way to evaluate teaching ability has yet been discovered , although some institutions use inventory sheets for a list of criteria . 
To avoid passing over quiet , unaggressive teachers as well as to decide whether others merit promotion , review of the right of faculty members to promotion or salary increases should be made periodically whether or not they have been recommended for advancement by their departments . 
There are certain aspects of personnel development in which a president must involve himself directly . 
He should personally consider the potential of a faculty member proposed for tenure , to guard against the mistake of making this profoundly serious commitment turn solely upon the man's former achievements . 
No one can be as effective as the president in inspiring older men to welcome imaginative new teachers whose philosophy or approach to their specialties is quite different . 
In particular , the president may have to summon all his oratorical powers to persuade department members to accept an outstanding man above the normal salary scale . 
On those rare occasions when a faculty member on tenure is not meeting the standards of the institution , the president must also bear the ultimate burden of decision and action . 
A true university , like most successful marriages , is a unity of diversities Without forcing all components into a single pattern , the preparation of a master plan is an opportunity to consider interrelation of knowledge at its highest level , which a university -- in contrast to a multiversity -- should stand for . 
Recently colleges and universities have begun to translate their educational philosophy into institution-wide goals . 
Each year a few more institutions are deciding such questions as : Shall we require a liberal education built around a humanities core for all undergraduates ? 
Or shall we permit early specialization in scientific and technological subjects ? 
In the first instance , adequate appropriate reading materials and library accommodations must be planned . 
In the second , more shops , laboratories , and staff will be required . 
For the president , a master plan looking ahead five years ( the maximum reach for sound forecasting ) , offers several practical advantages . 
Trustees , faculty , and administration can consider the consequences of decisions before they are made , instead of afterwards . 
Physical plant and equipment can be efficiently developed . 
Proposed new programs can be examined for appropriateness to goals and for present and future financial fitness . 
More than one president has found that a long-range plan helps him to attract major gifts . 
It inspires confidence in his institution's determination to establish goals and to achieve them . 
Before deciding where it is going , however , a college or university must know where it is . 
The first step is a comprehensive self study made by faculty , by outside consultants , or by a combination of the two . 
It should sternly appraise curricula , faculty , organization , buildings , faculty work loads , and potential for growth in stature and size . 
Implementation of the master plan will inevitably be uneven . 
Some departments will attack their new goals enthusiastically ; ; others may drag their feet . 
Funds may be readily donated for some purposes but not others . 
A plan must therefore be brought up to date periodically , possibly with the assistance of a permanent planning officer . 
To provide the continuous flow of information basic to administrative decisions , a number of institutions have established offices of institutional research . 
Some offices have very broad responsibilities , touching on almost all aspects of a university's instructional program . 
Their duties include evaluation of the information collected and preparation of recommendations . 
More often , these offices are restricted to the gathering of empirical data . 
The president's opportunity for influencing education reaches its highest point , as he decides which projects he will cut back , which he will advance by increased allowances or new fund-raising efforts . 
No matter how high the hopes and dreams of educators , budget making adjusts them to the cold realities of dollars and cents . 
When the budget goes to trustees for approval it is the president's budget , to which his faith and credit are committed ; ; its principal features should be a product of his most considered judgment . 
He cannot , of course , examine each proposal from scratch . 
He reviews and shapes the work of others to mold a single joint product that will best promote the aims of the institution . 
Budgeting must be flexible to allow adaptation to the rapid changes in scientific and technological scholarship . 
Because scientific instruction and research involve increasingly large sums of money , an institution should choose its fields of prominence . 
Otherwise it will be headed for bankruptcy , at worst , and at best towards starvation of other less dramatic but socially and culturally indispensable branches of learning . 
In the national interest even the affluent universities must consider some division of labor among them to replace their present ambitions to keep up with the Joneses in all branches . 
Supporting activities -- business management , public relations , fund-raising -- offer presidents one of their best chances to buy freedom for attention to education . 
Here the reasonable mastery of the elements of administration can do much to free a president for his primary role . 
In the areas that do not relate directly to the educational program , expert subordinates will serve the college or university better than close presidential attention . 
The president should find strong subordinates and delegate the widest discretion to them . 
Higher education cannot compete with the salary scales of the business world , but an educational institution can offer many potent intangible attractions to members of the business community that will offset the differences in income . 
Just as the entire faculty should know the president's educational philosophy and objectives , so should non-academic officers . 
They will better understand the relationship of their activities to the academic program and they will be able to explain their actions to faculty in terms of mutual goals . 
A president is frequently besieged to serve in non-academic civic and governmental capacities , to make speeches to lay groups , and to make numerous ceremonial appearances on and off campus . 
Since he can neither accept nor reject them all , he must be governed by the time and energy available for his prime professional obligations . 
Declinations and substitutions are better received when he explains why his obligations to his institution preclude his acceptance . 
By sharing the load of important speeches with his colleagues , the president can develop a cadre of able spokesmen who will help to create a public perception of the university as an institution , something more than the lengthened shadow of one man . 
1 . 
Introduction It has recently become practical to use the radio emission of the moon and planets as a new source of information about these bodies and their atmospheres . 
The results of present observations of the thermal radio emission of the moon are consistent with the very low thermal conductivity of the surface layer which was derived from the variation in the infrared emission during eclipses ( e.g. , Garstung , 1958 ) . 
When sufficiently accurate and complete measurements are available , it will be possible to set limits on the thermal and electrical characteristics of the surface and subsurface materials of the moon . 
Observations of the radio emission of a planet which has an extensive atmosphere will probe the atmosphere to a greater extent than those using shorter wave lengths and should in some cases give otherwise unobtainable information about the characteristics of the solid surface . 
Radio observations of Venus and Jupiter have already supplied unexpected experimental data on the physical conditions of these planets . 
The observed intensity of the radio emission of Venus is much higher than the expected thermal intensity , although the spectrum indicated by measurements at wave lengths near 3 cm and 10 cm is like that of a black body at about 600-degrees . 
This result suggests a very high temperature at the solid surface of the planet , although there is the possibility that the observed radiation may be a combination of both thermal and non-thermal components and that the observed spectrum is that of a black body merely by coincidence . 
For the case of Jupiter , the radio emission spectrum is definitely not like the spectrum of a black-body radiator , and it seems very likely that the radiation reaching the earth is a combination of thermal radiation from the atmosphere and non-thermal components . 
Of the remaining planets , only Mars and Saturn have been observed as radio sources , and not very much information is available . 
Mars has been observed twice at about 3-cm wave length , and the intensity of the observed radiation is in reasonable agreement with the thermal radiation which might be predicted on the basis of the known temperature of Mars . 
The low intensity of the radiation from Saturn has limited observations , but again the measured radiation seems to be consistent with a thermal origin . 
No attempts to measure the radio emission of the remaining planets have been reported , and , because of their distances , small diameters , or low temperatures , the thermal radiation at radio wave lengths reaching the earth from these sources is expected to be of very low intensity . 
In spite of this , the very large radio reflectors and improved amplifying techniques which are now becoming available should make it possible to observe the radio emission of most of the planets in a few years . 
The study of the radio emission of the moon and planets began with the detection of the thermal radiation of the moon at 1.25-cm wave length by Dicke and Beringer ( 1946 ) . 
This was followed by a comprehensive series of observations of the 1.25-cm emission of the moon over three lunar cycles by Piddington and Minnett ( 1949 ) . 
They deduced from their measurements that the radio emission from the whole disk of the moon varied during a lunation in a roughly sinusoidal fashion ; ; that the amplitude of the variation was considerably less than the amplitude of the variation in the infrared emission as measured by Pettit and Nicholson ( 1930 ) and Pettit ( 1935 ) ; ; and that the maximum of the radio emission came about 3-1/2 days after Full Moon , which is again in contrast to the infrared emission , which reaches its maximum at Full Moon . 
Piddington and Minnett explained their observations by pointing out that rocklike materials which are likely to make up the surface of the moon would be partially transparent to radio waves , although opaque to infrared radiation . 
The infrared emission could then be assumed to originate at the surface of the moon , while the radio emission originates at some depth beneath the surface , where the temperature variation due to solar radiation is reduced in amplitude and shifted in phase . 
Since the absorption of radio waves in rocklike material varies with wave length , it should be possible to sample the temperature variation at different depths beneath the surface and possibly detect changes in the structure or composition of the lunar surface material . 
The radio emission of a planet was first detected in 1955 , when Burke and Franklin ( 1955 ) identified the origin of interference-like radio noise on their records at about 15 meters wave length as emission from Jupiter . 
This sporadic type of planetary radiation is discussed by Burke ( chap. 13 ) and Gallet ( chap. 14 ) . 
Steady radiation which was presumably of thermal origin was observed from Venus at 3.15 and 9.4 cm , and from Mars and Jupiter at 3.15 cm in 1956 ( Mayer , McCullough , and Sloanaker , 1958 , A , B , C ) , and from Saturn at 3.75 cm in 1957 ( Drake and Ewen , 1958 ) . 
In the relatively short time since these early observations , Venus has been observed at additional wave lengths in the range from 0.8 to 10.2 cm , and Jupiter has been observed over the wave-length range from 3.03 to 68 Aj . 
The observable characteristics of planetary radio radiation are the intensity , the polarization , and the direction of arrival of the waves . 
The maximum angular diameter of any planetary disk as observed from the earth is about 1 minute of arc . 
This is much smaller than the highest resolution of even the very large reflectors now under construction , and consequently the radio emission of different regions of the disk cannot be resolved . 
It should be possible , however , to put useful limits on the diameters of the radio sources by observing with large reflectors or with interferometers . 
Measurements of polarization are presently limited by apparatus sensitivity and will remain difficult because of the low intensity of the planetary radiation at the earth . 
There have been few measurements specifically for the determination of the polarization of planetary radiation . 
The measurements made with the NRL 50-foot reflector , which is altitude-azimuth-mounted , would have shown a systematic change with local hour angle in the measured intensities of Venus and Jupiter if a substantial part of the radiation had been linearly polarized . 
Recent interferometer measurements ( Radhakrishnan and Roberts , 1960 ) have shown the 960-mc emission of Jupiter to be partially polarized and to originate in a region of larger diameter than the visible disk . 
Other than this very significant result , most of the information now available about the radio emission of the planets is restricted to the intensity of the radiation . 
The concept of apparent black-body temperature is used to describe the radiation received from the moon and the planets . 
The received radiation is compared with the radiation from a hypothetical black body which subtends the same solid angle as the visible disk of the planet . 
The apparent black-body disk temperature is the temperature which must be assumed for the black body in order that the intensity of its radiation should equal that of the observed radiation . 
The use of this concept does not specify the origin of the radiation , and only if the planet really radiates as a black body , will the apparent black-body temperature correspond to the physical temperature of the emitting material . 
The radio radiation of the sun which is reflected from the moon and planets should be negligible compared with their thermal emission at centimeter wave lengths , except possibly at times of exceptional outbursts of solar radio noise . 
The quiescent level of centimeter wave-length solar radiation would increase the average disk brightness temperature by less than 1-degree . 
At meter wave lengths an increase of the order of 10-degrees in the average disk temperatures of the nearer planets would be expected . 
Therefore , neglecting the extreme outbursts , reflected solar radiation is not expected to cause sizable errors in the measurements of planetary radiation in the centimeter- and decimeter-wave-length range . 
2 . 
The moon 2.1 observations Radio observations of the moon have been made over the range of wave lengths from 4.3 mm to 75 cm , and the results are summarized in Table 1 . 
Observations have also been made at 1.5 mm using optical techniques ( Sinton , 1955 , 1956 , ; ; see also chap. 11 ) . 
Not all the observers have used the same procedures or made the same assumptions about the lunar brightness distribution when reducing the data , and this , together with differences in the methods of calibrating the antennae and receivers , must account for much of the disagreement in the measured radio brightness temperatures . 
In the observations at 4.3 mm ( Coates , 1959 ) , the diameter of the antenna beam , 6'.7 , was small enough to allow resolution of some of the larger features of the lunar surface , and contour diagrams have been made of the lunar brightness distribution at three lunar phases . 
These observations indicate that the lunar maria heat up more rapidly and also cool off more rapidly than do the mountainous regions . 
Mare Imbrium seems to be an exception and remains cooler than the regions which surround it . 
These contour diagrams also suggest a rather rapid falloff in the radio brightness with latitude . 
Very recently , observations have been made at 8-mm wave length with a reflector 22 meters in diameter with a resultant beam width of only about 2' ( Amenitskii , Noskova , and Salomonovich , 1960 ) . 
The constant-temperature contours are much smoother than those observed at 4.3 mm by Coates ( 1959 ) and apparently the emission at 8 mm is not nearly so sensitive to differences in surface features . 
Such high-resolution observations as these are needed at several wave lengths in order that the radio emission of the moon can be properly interpreted . 
The observations of Mayer , McCullough , and Sloanaker at 3.15 cm and of Sloanaker at 10.3 cm have not previously been published and will be briefly described . 
Measurements at 3.15 cm were obtained on 11 days spread over the interval May 3 to June 19 , 1956 , using the 50-foot reflector at the U. S. Naval Research Laboratory in Washington . 
The half-intensity diameter of the antenna beam was about 9' , and the angle subtended by the moon included the entire main beam and part of the first side lobes . 
The antenna patterns and the power gain at the peak of the beam were both measured ( Mayer , McCullough , and Sloanaker , 1958 ) , so that the absolute power sensitivity of the antenna beam over the solid angle of the moon was known . 
The ratio of the measured antenna temperature change during a drift scan across the moon to the average brightness temperature of the moon over the antenna beam ( assuming that the brightness temperature of the sky is negligible ) was found , by graphical integration of the antenna directivity diagram , to be 0.85 . 
The measured brightness temperature is a good approximation to the brightness temperature at the center of the lunar disk because of the narrow antenna beam and because the temperature distribution over the central portion of the moon's disk is nearly uniform . 
The result of the observations is Af where the phase angle , Q , is measured in degrees from new moon and the probable errors include absolute as well as relative errors . 
This result is plotted along with the 8.6-mm observations of Gibson ( 1958 ) in figure 1 , A . 
The variation in the 3-cm emission of the moon during a lunation is very much less than the variation in the 8.6-mm emission , as would be expected from the explanation of Piddington and Minnett ( 1949 ) . 
In the discussion which follows , the time average of the radio emission will be referred to as the constant component , and the superimposed periodic variation will be called the variable component . 
The 10.3-cm observation of Sloanaker was made on May 20 , 1958 , using the 84-foot reflector at the Maryland Point Observatory of the U. S. Naval Research Laboratory . 
The age of the moon was about 2 days . 
The half-intensity diameter of the main lobe of the antenna was about 18'.5 , and the brightness temperature was reduced by assuming a Gaussian shape for the antenna beam and a uniformly bright disk for the moon . 
Abstract Experiments were made on an electric arc applying a porous graphite anode cooled by a transpiring gas ( Argon ) . 
Thus , the energy transferred from the arc to the anode was partly fed back into the arc . 
It was shown that by proper anode design the net energy loss of the arc to the anode could be reduced to approximately 15% of the total arc energy . 
A detailed energy balance of the anode was established . 
The anode ablation could be reduced to a negligible amount . 
The dependence of the arc voltage upon the mass flow velocity of the transpirating gas was investigated for various arc lengths and currents between 100 Amp and 200 Aj . 
Qualitative observations were made and high-speed motion pictures were taken to study flow phenomena in the arc at various mass flow velocities . 
Introduction The high heat fluxes existing at the electrode surfaces of electric arcs necessitate extensive cooling to prevent electrode ablation . 
The cooling requirements are particularly severe at the anode . 
In free-burning electric arcs , for instance , approximately 90% of the total arc power is transferred to the anode giving rise to local heat fluxes in excess of Af as measured by the authors -- the exact value depending on the arc atmosphere . 
In plasma generators as currently commercially available for industrial use or as high temperature research tools often more than 50% of the total energy input is being transferred to the cooling medium of the anode . 
The higher heat transfer rates at the anode compared with those at the cathode can be explained by the physical phenomena occurring in free burning arcs . 
In plasma generators the superimposed forced convection may modify the picture somewhat . 
The heat transfer to the anode is due to the following effects : 1 . 
Heat of condensation ( work function ) plus kinetic energy of the electrons impinging on the anode . 
This energy transfer depends on the current , the temperature in the arc column , the anode material , and the conditions in the anode sheath . 
2 . 
Heat transfer by molecular conduction as well as by radiation from the arc column . 
The heat transfer to the anode in free burning arcs is enhanced by a hot gas jet flowing from the cathode towards the anode with velocities up Af . 
This phenomenon has been experimentally investigated in detail by Maecker ( Ref. 1 ) . 
The pressure gradient producing the jet is due to the nature of the magnetic field in the arc ( rapid decrease of current density from cathode to the anode ) . 
Hence , the flow conditions at the anode of free burning arcs resemble those near a stagnation point . 
It is apparent from the above and from experimental evidence that the cooling requirements for the anode of free burning arcs are large compared with those for the cathode . 
The gas flow through a plasma generator will modify these conditions ; ; however , the anode is still the part receiving the largest heat flux . 
An attempt to improve the life of the anodes or the efficiency of the plasma generators must , therefore , aim at a reduction of the anode loss . 
The following possibilities exist for achieving this : 1 . 
The use of high voltages and low currents by proper design to reduce electron heat transfer to the anode for a given power output . 
2 . 
Continuous motion of the arc contact area at the anode by flow or magnetic forces . 
3 . 
Feedback of the energy transferred to the anode by applying gas transpiration through the anode . 
The third method was , to our knowledge , successfully applied for the first time by C. Sheer and co-workers ( Ref. 2 ) . 
The purpose of the present study is to study the thermal conditions and to establish an energy balance for a transpiration cooled anode as well as the effect of blowing on the arc voltage . 
Gas injection through a porous anode ( transpiration cooling ) not only feeds back the energy transferred to the anode by the above mentioned processes , but also modifies the conditions in the arc itself . 
A detailed study of this latter phenomenon was not attempted in this paper . 
Argon was used as a blowing gas to exclude any effects of dissociation or chemical reaction . 
The anode material was porous graphite . 
Sintered porous metals should be usable in principle . 
However , technical difficulties arise by melting at local hot spots . 
The experimental arrangement as described below is based on the geometry of free burning arcs . 
Thus , direct comparisons can be drawn with free burning arcs which have been studied in detail during the past years and decades by numerous investigators ( Ref. 3 ) . 
Experimental apparatus Figures 1 to 3 show photographic and schematic views of the test stand and of two different models of the anode holder . 
The cathode consisted of a 1/4'' '' diameter thoriated tungsten rod attached to a water cooled copper tube . 
This tube could be adjusted in its axial direction by an electric drive to establish the required electrode spacing . 
The anode in figure 2 was mounted by means of the anode holder which was attached to a steel plug and disk . 
The transpiring gas ejected from the anode formed a jet directed axially towards the cathode below . 
Inflow of air from the surrounding atmosphere was prevented by the two disks shown in figure 2 . 
Argon was also blown at low velocities ( mass flow rate Af ) through a tube coaxial with the cathode as an additional precaution against contamination of the arc by air . 
The anode consisted of a 1/2 inch diameter porous graphite plug , 1/4 inch long . 
The graphite was National Carbon NC 60 , which has a porosity of 50% and an average pore size of 30 . 
This small pore size was required to ensure uniformity of the flow leaving the anode . 
The anode plug ( Figure 2 ) was inserted into a carbon anode holder . 
A shielded thermocouple was used to measure the upstream temperature of the transpiring gas . 
It was exposed to a high velocity gas jet . 
A plug and a tube with holes in its cylindrical walls divided the chamber above the porous plug into two parts . 
This arrangement had the purpose to prevent heated gas to reach the thermocouple by natural convection . 
Two pyrometers shown in figure 1 and 2 ( Pyrometer Instrument Co. Model 95 ) served for simultaneous measurement of the anode surface temperature and the temperature distribution along the anode holder . 
Three thermocouples were placed at different locations in the aluminum disk surrounding the anode holder to determine its temperature . 
Another anode holder used in the experiments is shown in figure 3 . 
In this design the anode holder is water cooled and the heat losses by conduction from the anode were determined by measuring the temperature rise of the coolant . 
To reduce heat transfer from the hot gas to this anode holder outside the regime of the arc , a carbon shield was attached to the surface providing an air gap of 1/16 inch between the plate and the surface of the anode holder . 
In addition , the inner surface of the carbon shield was covered with aluminum foil to reduce radiation . 
Temperatures of the shield and of the surface of the water-cooled anode holder were measured by thermocouples to account for heat received by the coolant but not originating from the anode plug . 
The argon flow from commercial bottles was regulated by a pressure regulator and measured with a gas flow rator . 
The power source was a commercial D. C. rectifier . 
At 100 Amp the 360 cycle ripple was less than 0.5 V ( peak to peak ) with a resistive load . 
The current was regulated by means of a variable resistor and measured with a 50 mV shunt and millivoltmeter . 
The arc voltage was measured with a voltmeter whose terminals were connected to the anode and cathode holders . 
Because of the falling characteristic of the rectifier , no ballast resistor was required for stability of operation . 
A high frequency starter was used to start the arc . 
Experimental procedure and error analysis 1 . 
Transpiration cooled anode with carbon anode holder The anode holder shown in figure 2 was designed with two goals in mind . 
The heat losses of the holder were to be reduced as far as possible and they should be such that an accurate heat balance can be made . 
In order to reduce the number of variable parameters , all experiments were made with a constant arc length of 0.5'' '' and a current of 100 Aj . 
The argon flow through the porous anode was varied systematically between Af and Af . 
The lower limit was determined by the fact that for smaller flow rates the arc started to strike to the anode holder instead of to the porous graphite plug and that it became highly unstable . 
The upper limit was determined by the difficulty of measuring the characteristic anode surface temperature ( see below ) since only a small region of the anode was struck by the arc . 
This region which had a higher temperature than the rest of the anode surface changed size and location continuously . 
For each mass flow rate the arc voltage was measured . 
To measure the surface temperature of the anode plug , the surface was scanned with a pyrometer . 
As it turned out , a very hot region occurred on the plug . 
Its temperature was denoted by Af . 
The size of this hot region was estimated by eye . 
The rest of the surface had a temperature which decreased towards the outer diameter of the plug . 
The mean temperature of this region was approximated by the temperature measured halfways between the edge of the hot spot and the rim of the plug . 
It was denoted by Af . 
The mean temperature of the surface was then computed according to the following relation : Af where x is the fraction of the plug area covered by the hot spot . 
Assuming thermal equilibrium between the anode surface and the transpiring argon , the gas enthalpy rise through the anode was calculated according to the relation Af whereby the specific heat of argon was taken as Af . 
This calculation results in an enthalpy rise which is somewhat high because it assumes a mass flow equally distributed over the plug cross section whereas in reality the mass velocity is expected to be smaller in the regions of higher temperatures . 
The upstream gas temperature measured with the thermocouple shown in figure 2 was Af . 
The Af values are listed in Table 1 together with the measured surface temperatures and arc voltages . 
Simultaneously with the anode surface temperature and voltage measurements pyrometer readings were taken along the cylindrical surface of the carbon anode holder as indicated on figure 2 . 
Some of these temperatures are plotted in figure 4 . 
They showed no marked dependence on the flow rate within the accuracy of these measurements . 
Thus , the dotted line shown in figure 4 was taken as typical for the temperature distribution for all blowing rates . 
The thermocouples in the aluminum disk shown in figure 2 indicated an equilibrium temperature of the surface of Af . 
This temperature was taken as environmental temperature to which the anode holder was exposed as far as radiation is concerned . 
It is sufficiently small compared with the surface temperature of the anode holder , to make the energy flux radiated from the environment toward the anode holder negligible within the accuracy of the present measurements . 
The reflection of radiation originating from the anode holder and reflected back to it by the surrounding metal surfaces should also be small because of the peculiar characteristic of the metal surfaces and of the specific geometry . 
The total heat loss through the anode holder included also the heat conducted through the base of the cylindrical piece into the adjacent metal parts . 
It was calculated from the temperature gradient Af at Af inch as Af . 
The total heat flux from the porous plug into the plug holder is thereby Af . 
The temperature distribution of figure 4 gives Af for all blowing rates , assuming Af . 
The temperature dependent value of **ye was taken from Ref. 7 . 
The radiation loss from the anode surface was computed according to Af where Af is the mean of the fourth powers of the temperatures Af and Af calculated analogously to equation ( 1 ) . 
A band viscometer is shown in Figure 2 . 
It consists of two blocks with flat surfaces held apart by shims . 
There is a small well in the top in which the fluid or paste to be tested is placed . 
A tape of cellulose acetate is pulled between the blocks and the tape pulls the fluid or paste with it between the parallel faces of the blocks . 
In normal use weights are hung on the end of the tape and allowed to pull the tape and the material to be tested between the blocks . 
After it has reached terminal velocity , the time for the tape to travel a known distance is recorded . 
By the use of various weights , data for a force-rate of shear graph can be obtained . 
The instrument used for this work was a slight modification of that previously described . 
In this test a Af tape was pulled between the blocks with a motor and pulley at a rate of Af with a clearance of 0.002'' '' on each side of the tape . 
This gives a rate of shear of Af . 
This , however , can only be considered approximate , as the diameter of the pulley was increased by the build-up of tape and the tape was occasionally removed from the pulley during the runs . 
The face of one block contained a hole 1/16'' '' in diameter which led to a manometer for the measurement of the normal pressure . 
Although there were only four fluids tested , it was apparent that there were two distinct types . 
Two of the fluids showed a high-positive normal pressure when undergoing shear , and two showed small negative pressures which were negligible in comparison with the amount of the positive pressures generated by the other two . 
Figure 3 shows the data on a silicone fluid , labeled 12,500 cps which gave a high positive normal pressure . 
Although the tape was run for over 1 hr. , a steady state was not reached , and it was concluded that the reason for this was that the back pressure of the manometer was built up from the material fed from between the blocks and this was available at a very slow rate . 
A system had to be used which did not depend upon the feeding of the fluid into the manometer if measurements of the normal pressure were to be made in a reasonable time . 
A back pressure was then introduced , and the rise or fall of the material in the manometer indicated which was greater , the normal pressure in the block or the back pressure . 
By this method it was determined that the normal pressure exerted by a sample of polybutene ( molecular weight reported to be 770 ) was over half an atmosphere . 
The actual pressure was not determined because the pressure was beyond the upper limit of the apparatus on hand . 
The two fluids which gave the small negative pressures were polybutenes with molecular weights which were stated to be 520 and 300 . 
These are fluids which one would expect to be less viscoelastic or more Newtonian because of their lower molecular weight . 
The maximum suction was 3.25'' '' of test fluid measured from the top of the block , and steady states were apparently reached with these fluids . 
It is presumed that this negative head was associated with some geometric factor of the assembly , since different readings were obtained with the same fluid and the only apparent difference was the assembly and disassembly of the apparatus . 
This negative pressure is not explained by the velocity head Af since this is not sufficient to explain the readings by several magnitudes . 
These experiments can be considered exploratory only . 
However , they do demonstrate the presence of large normal pressures in the presence of flat shear fields which were forecast by the theory in the first part of the paper . 
They also give information which will aid in the design of a more satisfactory instrument for the measurement of the normal pressures . 
Such an instrument would be useful for the characterization of many commercial materials as well as theoretical studies . 
The elasticity is a parameter of fluids which is not subject to simple measurement at present , and it is a parameter which is probably varying in an unknown manner with many commercial materials . 
Such an instrument is expected to be especially useful if it could be used to measure the elasticity of heavy pastes such as printing inks , paints , adhesives , molten plastics , and bread dough , for the elasticity is related to those various properties termed `` length '' , `` shortness '' , `` spinnability '' , etc. , which are usually judged by subjective methods at present . 
The actual change Af caused by a shear field is calculated by multiplying the pressure differential times the volume , just as it is for any gravitational or osmotic pressure head . 
If the volume is the molal volume , then Af is obtained on a molal basis which is the customary terminology of the chemists . 
Although the Af calculation is obvious by analogy with that for gravitational field and osmotic pressure , it is interesting to confirm it by a method which can be generalized to include related effects . 
Consider a shear field with a height of H and a cross-sectional area of A opposed by a manometer with a height of H ( referred to the same base as H ) and a cross-sectional area of A . 
If Af is the change per unit volume in Gibbs function caused by the shear field at constant P and T , and **yr is the density of the fluid , then the total potential energy of the system above the reference height is Af . 
Af is the work necessary to fill the manometer column from the reference height to H . 
The total volume of the system above the reference height is Af , and H can be eliminated to obtain an equation for the total potential energy of the system in terms of H . 
The minimum total potential energy is found by taking the derivative with respect to H and equating to zero . 
This gives Af , which is the pressure . 
This is interesting for it combines both the thermodynamic concept of a minimum Gibbs function for equilibrium and minimum mechanical potential energy for equilibrium . 
This method can be extended to include the concentration differences caused by shear fields . 
The relation between osmotic pressure and the Gibbs function may also be developed in an analogous way . 
In the above development we have applied the thermodynamics of equilibrium ( referred to by some as thermostatics ) to the steady state . 
This can be justified thermodynamically in this case , and this will be done in a separate paper which is being prepared . 
This has an interesting analogy with the assumption stated by Philippoff that `` the deformational mechanics of elastic solids can be applied to flowing solutions '' . 
There is one exception to the above statement as has been pointed out , and that is that fluids can relax by flowing into fields of lower rates of shear , so the statement should be modified by stating that the mechanics are similar . 
If the mechanics are similar , we can also infer that the thermodynamics will also be similar . 
The concept of the strain energy as a Gibbs function difference Af and exerting a force normal to the shearing face is compatible with the information obtained from optical birefringence studies of fluids undergoing shear . 
Essentially these birefringence studies show that at low rates of shear a tension is present at 45-degrees to the direction of shear , and as the rate of shear increases , the direction of the maximum tension moves asymptotically toward the direction of shear . 
According to Philippoff , the recoverable shear S is given by Af where **yc is the angle of extinction . 
From this and the force of deformation it should be possible to calculate the elastic energy of deformation which should be equal to the Af calculated from the pressure normal to the shearing face . 
There is another means which should show the direction and relative value of the stresses in viscoelastic fluids that is not mentioned as such in the literature , and that is the shape of the suspended drops of low viscosity fluids in shear fields . 
These droplets are distorted by the normal forces just as a balloon would be pulled or pressed out of shape in one's hands . 
These droplets appear to be ellipsoids , and it is mathematically convenient to assume that they are . 
If they are not ellipsoids , the conclusions will be a reasonable approximation . 
The direction of the tension of minimum pressure is , of course , given by the direction of the major axis of the ellipsoids . 
Mason and Taylor both show that the major axis of the ellipsoids is at 45-degrees at low rates of shear and that it approaches the direction of shear with increased rates of shear . 
( Some suspensions break up before they are near to the direction of shear , and some become asymptotic to it without breakup . 
) This is , of course , a similar type of behavior to that indicated by birefringence studies . 
The relative forces can be calculated from the various radii of curvature if we assume : ( A ) The surface tension is uniform on the surface of the drop . 
( B ) That because of the low viscosity of the fluid , the internal pressure is the same in all directions . 
( C ) The kinetic effects are negligible . 
( D ) Since the shape of the drop conforms to the force field , it does not appreciably affect the distribution of forces in the fluid . 
These are reasonable assumptions with low viscosity fluids suspended in high viscosity fluids which are subjected to low rates of shear . 
Just as the pressure exerted by surface tension in a spherical drop is Af and the pressure exerted by surface tension on a cylindrical shape is Af , the pressure exerted by any curved surface is Af , where **yg is the interfacial tension and Af and Af are the two radii of curvature . 
This formula is given by Rumscheidt and Mason . 
If A is the major axis of an ellipsoid and B and C are the other two axes , the radius of curvature in the ab plane at the end of the axis Af , and the difference in pressure along the A and B axes is Af . 
There are no data published in the literature on the shape of low viscosity drops to confirm the above formulas . 
However , there are photographs of suspended drops of cyclohexanol phthalate ( viscosity 155 poises ) suspended in corn syrup of 71 poises in a paper by Mason and Bartok . 
This viscosity of the material in the drops is , of course , not negligible . 
Measurements on the photograph in this paper give Af at the maximum rate of shear of Af . 
If it is assumed that the formula given by Lodge of cosec Af applies , the pressure difference along the major axes can be calculated from the angle of inclination of the major axis , and from this the interfacial tension can be calculated . 
Its value was Af from the above data . 
This appears to be high , as would be expected from the appreciable viscosity of the material in the drops . 
It is appropriate to call attention to certain thermodynamic properties of an ideal gas that are analogous to rubber-like deformation . 
The internal energy of an ideal gas depends on temperature only and is independent of pressure or volume . 
In other words , if an ideal gas is compressed and kept at constant temperature , the work done in compressing it is completely converted into heat and transferred to the surrounding heat sink . 
This means that work equals Q which in turn equals Af . 
There is a well-known relationship between probability and entropy which states that Af , where **zq is the probability that state ( i.e. , volume for an ideal gas ) could be reached by chance alone . 
This is known as conformational entropy . 
This conformational entropy is , in this case , equal to the usual entropy , for there are no other changes or other energies involved . 
Note that though the ideal gas itself contains no additional energy , the compressed gas does exert an increased pressure . 
The energy for any isothermal work done by the perfect gas must come as thermal energy from its surroundings . 
A proton magnetic resonance study of polycrystalline Af as a function of magnetic field and temperature is presented . 
Af is paramagnetic , and electron paramagnetic dipole as well as nuclear dipole effects lead to line broadening . 
The lines are asymmetric and over the range of field Af gauss and temperature Af the asymmetry increases with increasing Af and decreasing T . 
An isotropic resonance shift of Af to lower applied fields indicates a weak isotropic hyperfine contact interaction . 
The general theory of resonance shifts is used to derive a general expression for the second moment Af of a polycrystalline paramagnetic sample and is specialized to Af . 
The theory predicts a linear dependence of Af on Af , where J is the experimentally determined Curie-Weiss constant . 
The experimental second moment Af conforms to the relation Af in agreement with theory . 
Hence , the electron paramagnetic effects ( slope ) can be separated from the nuclear effects ( intercept ) . 
The paramagnetic dipole effects provide some information on the particle shapes . 
The nuclear dipole effects provide some information on the motions of the hydrogen nuclei , but the symmetry of the Af bond in Af remains in doubt . 
Introduction the magnetic moment of an unpaired electron associated nearby may have a tremendous influence on the magnetic resonance properties of nuclei . 
It is important to consider and experimentally verify this influence since quantitative nuclear resonance is becoming increasingly used in investigations of structure . 
Af appeared to be well suited for the study of these matters , since it is a normal paramagnet , with three unpaired electrons on the chromium , its crystal structure is very simple , and the unknown position of the hydrogen in the strong Af bond provides structural interest . 
We first discuss the Af bond in Af . 
We then outline the theory of the interaction of paramagnetic dipoles with nuclei and show that the theory is in excellent agreement with experiment . 
Indeed it is possible to separate electron paramagnetic from nuclear effects . 
The information provided by the electron paramagnetic effects is then discussed , and finally the nuclear effects are interpreted in terms of various motional-modified models of the Af bond in Af . 
Af bond in Af Theoretical studies of the hydrogen bond generally agree that the Af bond will be linear in the absence of peculiarities of packing in the solid . 
Moreover , it will be asymmetric until a certain critical Af distance is reached , below which it will become symmetric . 
There is ample evidence from many sources that the Af bond in Af is symmetric . 
The Af distance in Af is 2.26 Aj . 
There is evidence , though less convincing than for Af , that the Af bond in nickel dimethylglyoxime is symmetric . 
Here the Af distance is 2.44 Aj . 
A number of semiempirical estimates by various workers lead to the conclusion that the Af bond becomes symmetric when the Af bond length is about 2.4 to 2.5 A , but aside from the possible example of nickel dimethylglyoxime there have been no convincing reports of symmetric Af bonds . 
Douglass has studied the crystal structure of Af by x-ray diffraction . 
He finds the structure contains an Af bond with the Af distance of Af . 
There is , then , the possibility that this Af bond is symmetric , although Douglass was unable to determine its symmetry from his x-ray data . 
Douglass found Af to be trigonal , Laue symmetry Af , with Af , Af . 
X-ray and experimental density showed one formula unit in the unit cell , corresponding to a paramagnetic ion density of Af . 
The x-ray data did not permit Douglass to determine uniquely the space group , but a negative test for piezoelectricity led him to assume a center of symmetry . 
Under this assumption the space group must be Af and the following are the positions of the atoms in the unit cell . 
Af . 
This space group requires the hydrogen bond to be symmetric . 
Douglass found powder intensity calculations and measurements to agree best for Af . 
These data lead to a structure in which sheets of Cr atoms lie between two sheets of O atoms . 
The O atoms in each sheet are close packed and each Cr atom is surrounded by a distorted octahedron of O atoms . 
The Af layers are stacked normal to the ( 111 ) axis with the lower oxygens of one layer directly above the upper oxygens of the neighboring lower layer , in such a manner that the repeat is every three layers . 
The separate layers are joined together by hydrogen bonds . 
A drawing of the structure is to be found in reference 6 . 
The gross details of the structure appear reasonable . 
The structure appears to be unique among OOH compounds , but is the same as that assumed by Af . 
The bond angles and distances are all within the expected limits and the volume per oxygen is about normal . 
However , the possible absence of a center of symmetry not only moves the hydrogen atom off Af , but also allows the oxygen atoms to become nonequivalent , with Af at Af and Af at Af ( space group Af ) , where Af represents the oxygens on one side of the Af layers and Af those on the other side . 
However , any oxygen nonequivalence would shorten either the already extremely short Af interlayer distance of 2.55 A or the non-hydrogen-bonded Af interlayer interactions which are already quite short at 2.58 Aj . 
Hence it is difficult to conceive of a packing of the atoms in this material in which the oxygen atoms are far from geometrical equivalence . 
The only effect of lack of a center would then be to release the hydrogen atoms to occupy general , rather than special , positions along the ( 111 ) axis . 
If the Af bond is linear then there are three reasonable positions for the hydrogen atoms : ( 1 ) The hydrogen atoms are centered and hence all lie on a sheet midway between the oxygen sheets ; ; ( 2 ) all hydrogen atoms lie on a sheet , but the sheet is closer to one oxygen sheet than to the other ; ; ( 3 ) hydrogen atoms are asymmetrically placed , either randomly or in an ordered way , so that some hydrogen atoms are closer to the upper oxygen atoms while others are closer to the lower oxygen atoms . 
Position ( 2 ) appears to us to be unlikely in view of the absence of a piezoelectric effect and on general chemical structural grounds . 
A randomization of `` ups '' and `` downs '' is more likely than ordered `` ups '' and `` downs '' in position ( 3 ) since the hydrogen atoms are well separated and so the position of one could hardly affect the position of another , and also since ordered `` up '' and `` down '' implies a larger unit cell , for which no evidence exists . 
Therefore , the only unknown structural feature would appear to be whether the hydrogen atoms are located symmetrically ( 1 ) or asymmetrically ( 3 ) . 
Experimental procedures samples Douglass prepared his sample of Af by thermal decomposition of aqueous chromic acid at 300 - 325-degrees-C . 
Dr. Douglass was kind enough to lend us about 5 grams of his material . 
This material proved to be unsatisfactory , since we could not obtain reproducible results on various portions of the sample . 
Subsequently , we learned from Douglass that his sample contained a few percent Af impurity . 
Since Af is ferromagnetic , we felt that any results obtained from the magnetically contaminated Af would be suspect . 
Plane suggested another preparation of Af which we used here . 
500 ml of 1M aqueous Af with 1 Af added are heated in a bomb at 170-degrees-C for 48 hours . 
A very fine , gray solid ( about 15 g ) is formed , water-washed by centrifugation , and dried at 110-degrees-C ) . 
Differential thermal analysis showed a very small endothermic reaction at 340-degrees-C and a large endothermic reaction at 470-degrees-C . 
This latter reaction is in accord with the reported decomposition of Af . 
Thermogravimetric analysis showed a weight loss of 1.8% centered at 337-degrees-C and another weight loss of 10.8% at 463-degrees-C . 
The expected weight loss for Af going to Af and Af is 10.6% . 
Mass spectrometric analysis of gases evolved upon heating to 410-degrees-C indicated nitrogen oxides and water vapor . 
The small reaction occurring at 337-degrees-C is probably caused by decomposition of occluded nitrates , and perhaps by a small amount of some hydrous material other than Af . 
All subsequent measurements were made on material which had been heated to 375-degrees-C for one hour . 
Emission spectra indicated Af calcium and all other impurities much lower . 
Chromium analysis gave 58.8% Cr as compared with 61.2% theory . 
However , Af adsorbs water from the atmosphere and this may account for the low chromium analysis and high total weight loss . 
The x-ray diffraction pattern of the material , taken with CuK**ya radiation , indicated the presence of no extra lines and was in good agreement with the pattern of Douglass . 
Magnetic analyses by R. G. Meisenheimer of this laboratory indicated no ferromagnetic impurities . 
Af was found to be paramagnetic with three unpaired electrons per chromium atom and a molecular susceptibility of Af , where Af . 
For exactly three unpaired electrons the coefficient would be 3.10 . 
An infrared spectrum , obtained by H. A. Benesi and R. G. Snyder of this laboratory , showed bands in the positions found by Jones . 
Electron microscopic examination of the Af sample showed it to be composed of nearly isotropic particles about 0.3M in diameter . 
The particles appeared rough and undoubtedly the single-crystal domains are smaller than this . 
The x-ray data are consistent with particle sizes of 1000 A or greater . 
We found no obvious effects due to preferred orientation of the crystallites in this sample nor would we expect to on the basis of the shape found from electron microscopic examination . 
Nuclear magnetic resonance ( NMR ) measurements The magnetic resonance absorption was detected by employing a Varian model Af broad line spectrometer and the associated 12-inch electromagnet system . 
One measurement at 40 Mc/sec was obtained with the Varian model Af unit . 
A bridged-T type of bridge was used in the 10 - 16 Mc/sec range . 
The rf power level was maintained small enough at all times to prevent obvious line shape distortions by saturation effects . 
A modulation frequency of 40 cps with an amplitude as small as possible , commensurate with reasonably good signal-to-noise quality , was used . 
Background spectra were obtained in all cases . 
The spectrometer was adjusted to minimize the amount of dispersion mode mixed in with the absorption signal . 
A single value of the thermal relaxation time Af at room temperature was measured by the progressive saturation method . 
The value of Af estimated at 470 gauss was Af microseconds . 
A single measurement of the spin - spin relaxation time Af was obtained at 10 Mc/sec by pulse methods . 
This measurement was obtained by W. Blumberg of the University of California , Berkeley , by observing the breadth of the free induction decay signal . 
The value derived was 16 microseconds . 
Field shifts were derived from the mean value of the resonance line , defined as the field about which the first moment is zero . 
Second moments of the spectra were computed by numerical integration . 
Corrections were applied for modulation broadening , apparatus background , and field shift . 
Spectra were obtained over the temperature range of 77 - 294-degrees-K . 
For the low-temperature measurements the sample was cooled by a cold nitrogen gas flow method similar to that of Andrew and Eades . 
The temperature was maintained to within about Af for the period of time required to make the measurement ( usually about one hour ) . 
One sample , which had been exposed to the atmosphere after evacuation at 375-degrees-C , showed the presence of adsorbed water ( about 0.3 wt ) ) as evidenced by a weak resonance line which was very narrow at room temperature and which disappeared , due to broadening , at low temperature . 
The data reported here are either from spectra from which the adsorbed water resonance could easily be eliminated or from spectra of samples evacuated and sealed off at 375-degrees-C which contain no adsorbed water . 
The measured powder density of the Af used here was about Af , approximately one-third that of the crystal density ( Af ) . 
Such a density corresponds to a paramagnetic ion density of about Af . 
Spectra were obtained from a powdered sample having the shape of a right circular cylinder with a height-to-diameter ratio of 4 : : 1 . 
The top of the sample was nearly flat and the bottom hemispherical . 
Spectra were also obtained from a sample in a spherical container which was made by blowing a bubble on the end of a capillary glass tube . 
The bubble was filled to the top and special precautions were taken to prevent any sample from remaining in the capillary . 
Spectra were also obtained from a third sample of Af which had been diluted to three times its original volume with powdered , anhydrous alundum ( Af ) . 
This sample was contained in a cylindrical container similar to that described above . 
Polyphosphates gave renewed life to soap products at a time when surfactants were a threat though expensive , and these same polyphosphates spelled the decline of soap usage when the synergism between polyphosphates and synthetic detergent actives was recognized and exploited . 
The market today for detergent builders is quite diverse . 
The best known field of application for builders is in heavy-duty , spray-dried detergent formulations for household use . 
These widely advertised products , which are used primarily for washing clothes , are based on high-sudsing , synthetic organic actives ( sodium alkylbenzenesulfonates ) and contain up to 50% by weight of sodium tripolyphosphate or a mixture of sodium tripolyphosphate and tetrasodium pyrophosphate . 
In the household market , there are also low-sudsing detergent formulations based on nonionic actives with about the same amount of phosphate builder ; ; light-duty synthetic detergents with much less builder ; ; and the dwindling built-soap powders as well as soap flakes and granules , none of which are now nationally advertised . 
A well-publicized entrant which has achieved success only recently is the built liquid detergent , with which the major problem today is incorporation of builder and active into a small volume using a sufficiently high builder/active ratio . 
Hard-surface cleaning in household application is represented by two classes of alkaline products : ( 1 ) the formulations made expressly for machine dishwashers , and ( 2 ) the general-purpose cleaners used for walls and woodwork . 
The better quality products in both of these lines contain phosphate builders . 
In addition , many of the hard-surface cleaners used for walls and woodwork had their genesis in trisodium orthophosphate , which is still the major ingredient of a number of such products . 
Many scouring powders now also contain phosphates . 
These hard-surface cleaners are discussed in Chapter 28 . 
The cleaning process Cleaning or detergent action is entirely a matter of surfaces . 
Wet cleaning involves an aqueous medium , a solid substrate , soil to be removed , and the detergent or surface-active material . 
An oversimplified differentiation between soft- and hard-surface cleaning lies in the magnitude and kind of surface involved . 
One gram of cotton has been found to have a specific surface area of Af . 
In contrast , a metal coupon Af in size would have a magnitude from 100,000 to a million less . 
Even here there is room for some variation , for metal surfaces vary in smoothness , absorptive capacity , and chemical reactivity . 
Spring used a Brush surface-analyzer in a metal-cleaning study and showed considerable differences in soil removal , depending upon surface roughness . 
There are considerable differences between the requirements for textile and hard-surface cleaning . 
Exclusive of esthetic values , such as high- or low-foam level , perfume content , etc. , the requirements for the organic active used in washing textiles are high . 
No matter how they are formulated , a large number of organic actives are simply not suitable for this application , since they do not give adequate soil removal . 
This is best demonstrated by practical washing tests in which cloth articles are repeatedly washed with the same detergent formulation . 
A good formulation will keep the clothes clean and white after many washings ; ; whereas , with a poor formulation , the clothes exhibit a build-up of `` tattle-tale grey '' and dirty spots -- sometimes with bad results even after the first wash . 
Since practical washing procedures are both lengthy and expensive , a number of laboratory tests have been developed for the numerical evaluation of detergents . 
Harris has indicated that two devices , the Launder-Ometer and Terg-O-Tometer are most widely used for rapid detergent testing , and he has listed the commercially available standard soiled fabrics . 
Also given are several laboratory wash procedures in general use . 
The soiled fabrics used for rapid testing of detergent formulations are made in such a way that only part of the soil is removed by even the best detergent formulation in a single wash . 
In this way , numerical values for the relative efficacy of various detergent formulations can be obtained by measuring the reflectance ( whiteness ) of the cloth swatches before and after washing . 
Soil redeposition is evaluated by washing clean swatches with the dirty ones . 
As is the case with the surface-active agent , the requirements for builders to be used in detergent compositions for washing textiles are also high . 
Large numbers of potential builders have been investigated , but none have been found to be as effective as the polyphosphates over the relatively wide range of conditions met in practice . 
The problems of hard-surface cleaning are not nearly as complex . 
In hard-surface cleaning , the inorganic salts are more important than the organic active . 
Indeed , when the proper inorganic constituents are employed , practically any wetting or surface-active agent will do a reasonably good job when present in sufficient amount in a hard-surface cleaning formulation . 
Hydroxides , orthophosphates , borates , carbonates , and silicates are important inorganic ingredients of hard-surface cleaners . 
In addition , the polyphosphates are also used , probably acting more as peptizing agents than anything else . 
The importance of the inorganic constituents in hard-surface cleaning has been emphasized in a number of papers . 
Physical chemistry of washing Although there is no question but that the process of washing fabrics involves a number of phenomena which are related together in an extremely complicated way and that these phenomena and their interrelations are not well understood at the present , this section attempts to present briefly an up-to-date picture of the physical chemistry of washing either fabrics or hard surfaces . 
The purpose of washing is , obviously , to remove soils which are arbitrarily classed in the four major categories given below : 1 . 
Dirt , which is here defined as particulate material which is usually inorganic and is very often extremely finely divided so as to exhibit colloidal properties . 
2 . 
Greasy soils , which are typified by hydrocarbons and fats ( esters of glycerol with long-chain organic acids ) . 
3 . 
Stains , which include the wide variety of nonparticulate materials which give color even when present in very low concentration on the soiled object . 
4 . 
Miscellaneous soils , which primarily include sticky substances and colorless liquids which evaporate to leave a residue . 
The dirt on the soiled objects is mechanically held by surface irregularities to some extent . 
However , a major factor in binding dirt is the attraction between surfaces that goes under the name of Van der Waal's forces . 
This is a theoretically complicated dipole interaction which causes any extremely small uncharged particle to agglomerate with other small uncharged particles , or to stick to an uncharged surface . 
Obviously , if colloidal particles bear charges of opposite sign or , if one kind is charged and the other kind is not , the attraction will be intensified and the tendency to agglomerate will be greatly reinforced . 
Likewise , a charged particle will tend to stick to an uncharged surface and vice versa , and a charged particle will be very strongly attracted to a surface exhibiting an opposite charge . 
In addition , dirt particles can be held onto a soiled surface by sticky substances or by the surface tension of liquids , including liquid greases . 
Greases , stains , and miscellaneous soils are usually sorbed onto the soiled surface . 
In most cases , these soils are taken up as liquids through capillary action . 
In an essentially static system , an oil cannot be replaced by water on a surface unless the interfacial tensions of the water phase are reduced by a surface-active agent . 
The washing process whereby soils are removed consists basically of applying mechanical action to loosen the dirt particles and dried matter in the presence of water which helps to float off the debris and acts , to some extent , as a dissolving and solvating agent . 
Greasy soils are hardly removed by washing in plain water ; ; and natural waters , in addition , often contain impurities such as calcium salts which can react with soils to make them more difficult to remove . 
Therefore , detergents are used . 
The detergent active is that substance which primarily acts to remove greasy soils . 
The other constituents in a built detergent assist in this and in the removal of dirty stains and the hydrophilic sticky or dried soils . 
As is well known , detergent actives belong to the chemical class consisting of moderately high molecular weight and highly polar molecules which exhibit the property of forming micelles in solution . 
Physicochemical investigations of anionic surfactants , including the soaps , have shown that there is little polymerization or agglomeration of the chain anions below a certain region of concentration called the critical micelle concentration . 
( 1 ) Below the critical micelle concentration , monomers and some dimers are present . 
( 2 ) In the critical micelle region , there is a rapid agglomeration or polymerization to give the micelles , which have a degree of polymerization averaging around 60 - 80 . 
( 3 ) For anionics , these micelles appear to be roughly spherical assemblages in which the hydrocarbon tails come together so that the polar groups ( the ionized ends ) face outward towards the aqueous continuous phase . 
Obviously hydrophobic ( oleophilic ) substances such as greases , oils , or particles having a greasy or oily surface are more at home in the center of a micelle than in the aqueous phase . 
Micelles can imbibe and hold a considerable amount of oleophilic substances so that the micelle volume may be increased as much as approximately two-fold . 
Although the matter has not been unequivocally demonstrated , the available data show that micelles in themselves do not contribute significantly to the detergency process . 
Related to micelle formation is the technologically important ability of detergent actives to congregate at oil - water interfaces in such a manner that the polar ( or ionized ) end of the molecule is directed towards the aqueous phase and the hydrocarbon chain towards the oily phase . 
In the cleaning process , sorbed greasy soils become coated in this manner with an oriented film of surfactant . 
Then during washing , the greasy soil rolls back at the edges so that emulsified droplets can disengage themselves from the sorbed oil mass , with the aid of mechanical action , and enter the aqueous phase . 
Obviously , a substance which is permanently or temporarily sorbed on the surface in place of the soil will tend to accelerate this process and effectively push off the greasy soil . 
Substances other than detergent actives also tend to be strongly sorbed from aqueous media onto surfaces of other contiguous condensed phases . 
This is particularly true of highly charged ions , especially those ions which fall into the class of polyelectrolytes . 
Whereas the usual organic surface-active agent is strongly sorbed at oil - water interfaces , the highly charged ions are most strongly sorbed at interfaces between water and insoluble materials exhibiting an ionic structure ( see Table 26-2 on p. 1678 ) . 
Thus , for aqueous media , we can think of the idealized organic active as an oleophilic or hydrophobic surface-active agent , and of an idealized builder as a oleophobic or hydrophilic surface-active agent . 
From the equilibrium sorption data which are available , it seems logical to expect that polyphosphate ions would be strongly sorbed on the surface of the dirt ( especially clay soils ) so as to give it a greatly increased negative charge . 
The charged particles then repel each other and are also repelled from the charged surface , which almost invariably bears a negative charge under washing conditions . 
The negatively charged dirt particles then leave the surface and go into the aqueous phase . 
This hypothesis is evolved in analogy to the demonstrated action of organic actives in detergency . 
It does not consider the kinetic effects of the phosphate builders on sorption-desorption phenomena which will be discussed later ( see pp. 1746 - 1748 ) . 
The crude picture of the detergency process thus far developed can be represented as : Af . 
The influence of mechanical action on the particles of free soil may be compared to that of kinetic energy on a molecular scale . 
Freed soil must be dispersed and protected against flocculation . 
Cleaned cloth must be protected against the redeposition of dispersed soil . 
It is evident that the requirements imposed by these effects upon any one detergent constituent acting alone are severe . 
Upon consideration of the variety of soils and fabrics normally encountered in the washing process , it is little wonder that the use of a number of detergent constituents having `` synergistic '' properties has gained widespread acceptance . 
In the over-all process , it is difficult to assign a `` pure '' role to each constituent of a built-detergent formulation ; ; and , indeed , there is no more reason to separate the interrelated roles of the active , builder , antiredeposition agent , etc. than there is to assign individual actions to each of the numerous isomers making up a given commercial organic active . 
The thermal exchange of chlorine between Af and liquid Af is readily measurable at temperatures in the range of 180-degrees and above . 
The photochemical exchange occurs with a quantum yield of the order of unity in the liquid phase at 65-degrees using light absorbed only by the Af . 
In the gas phase , with Af of Af and Af of Af , quantum yields of the order of Af have been observed at 85-degrees . 
Despite extensive attempts to obtain highly pure reagents , serious difficulty was experienced in obtaining reproducible rates of reaction . 
It appears possible to set a lower limit of about Af for the activation energy of the abstraction of a chlorine atom from a carbon tetrachloride molecule by a chlorine atom to form Af radical . 
The rate of the gas phase exchange reaction appears to be proportional to the first power of the absorbed light intensity indicating that the radical intermediates are removed at the walls or by reaction with an impurity rather than by bimolecular radical combination reactions . 
Introduction Because of the simplicity of the molecules , isotopic exchange reactions between elemental halogens and the corresponding carbon tetrahalides would appear to offer particularly fruitful possibilities for obtaining unambiguous basic kinetic data . 
It would appear that it should be possible to determine unique mechanisms for the thermal and photochemical reactions in both the liquid and gas phases and to determine values for activation energies of some of the intermediate reactions of atoms and free radicals , as well as information on the heat of dissociation of the carbon-halogen bond . 
The reaction of chlorine with carbon tetrachloride seemed particularly suited for such studies . 
It should be possible to prepare very pure chlorine by oxidation of inorganic chlorides on a vacuum system followed by multiple distillation of the liquid . 
It should be possible to free carbon tetrachloride of any interfering substances by the usual purification methods followed by prechlorination prior to addition of radioactive chlorine . 
Furthermore , the exchange would not be expected to be sensitive to trace amounts of impurities because it would not be apt to be a chain reaction since the activation energy for abstraction of chlorine by a chlorine atom would be expected to be too high ; ; also it would be expected that Af would compete very effectively with any impurities as a scavenger for Af radicals . 
Contrary to these expectations we have found it impossible to obtain the degree of reproducibility one would wish , even with extensive efforts to prepare especially pure reagents . 
We are reporting these investigations here briefly because of their relevancy to problems of the study of apparently simple exchange reactions of chlorine and because the results furnish some information on the activation energy for abstraction of chlorine atoms from carbon tetrachloride . 
Experimental reagents . 
-- Matheson highest purity tank chlorine was passed through a tube of resublimed Af into an evacuated Pyrex system where it was condensed with liquid air . 
It was then distilled at least three times from a trap at -78-degrees to a liquid air trap with only a small middle fraction being retained in each distillation . 
The purified product was stored at -78-degrees in a tube equipped with a break seal . 
Of several methods employed for tagging chlorine with radiochlorine , the exchange of inactive chlorine with tagged aluminum chloride at room temperature was found to be the most satisfactory . 
To prepare the latter , silver chloride was precipitated from a solution containing Af obtained from the Oak Ridge National Laboratory . 
The silver chloride was fused under vacuum in the presence of aluminum chips with the resultant product of Af which was sublimed into a flask on the vacuum line . 
Previously purified chlorine was subsequently admitted and the exchange was allowed to take place . 
The radiochlorine was stored at -78-degrees in a tube equipped with a break seal . 
Liter quantities of Mallinckrodt , low sulfur , reagent grade carbon tetrachloride were saturated with Af and Af and illuminated for about 50 hours with a 1000 watt tungsten lamp at a distance of a few inches . 
The mixture was then extracted with alkali and with water following which the carbon tetrachloride was distilled on a Vigreux column , a 25% center cut being retained which was then degassed under vacuum in the presence of Af . 
Purified inactive chlorine was then added from one of the tubes described above and the mixture frozen out and sealed off in a flask equipped with a break seal . 
This chlorine-carbon tetrachloride solution was illuminated for a day following which the flask was resealed onto a vacuum system and the excess chlorine distilled off . 
The required amount of carbon tetrachloride was distilled into a series of reaction cells on a manifold on a vacuum line . 
The desired amounts of inactive chlorine and radioactive chlorine were likewise condensed in these cells on the vacuum line following which they were frozen down and the manifold as a whole was sealed off . 
The contents of the manifold for liquid phase experiments were then mixed by shaking , redistributed to the reaction tubes , frozen down , and each tube was then sealed off . 
The reactants for the gas phase experiments were first frozen out in a side-arm attached to the manifold and then allowed to distil slowly into the manifold of pre-cooled reaction cells before sealing off . 
This method in general solved the problem of obtaining fairly equal concentrations of reactants in each of the six cells from a set . 
Reaction conditions and analysis . 
-- The samples for liquid phase thermal reaction studies were prepared in Pyrex capillary tubing 2.5 mm. i.d. and about 15 cm. long . 
In a few experiments the tubes were made from standard 6 mm. i.d. Pyrex tubing of 1 mm. wall thickness . 
Both types of tube withstood the pressure of approximately 20 atmospheres exerted by the carbon tetrachloride at 220-degrees . 
The photochemical reaction cells consisted of 10 mm. i.d. Pyrex tubing , 5.5 cm. long , diffraction effects being minimized by the fact that the light passed through only liquid-glass interfaces and not gas-glass interfaces . 
These cells were used rather than square Pyrex tubing because of the tendency of the latter to shatter when thawing frozen carbon tetrachloride . 
The round cells were reproducibly positioned in the light beam which entered the thermostated mineral oil-bath through a window . 
Two types of light source were used , a thousand watt projection lamp and an AH6 high pressure mercury arc . 
The light was filtered by the soft glass window of the thermostat thus ensuring that only light absorbed by the chlorine and not by the carbon tetrachloride could enter the reaction cell . 
Relative incident light intensities were measured with a thermopile potentiometer system . 
Changes of intensity on the cell were achieved by use of a wire screen and by varying the distance of the light source from the cell . 
Following reaction the cells were scratched with a file and opened under a 20% aqueous sodium iodide solution . 
Carrier Af was added and the aqueous and organic phases were separated ( cells containing gaseous reactants were immersed in liquid air before opening under sodium iodide ) . 
After titration of the liberated Af with Af , aliquots of the aqueous and of the organic phase were counted in a solution-type Geiger tube . 
In the liquid phase runs the amount of carbon tetrachloride in each reaction tube was determined by weighing the tube before opening and weighing the fragments after emptying . 
The fraction of exchange was determined as the ratio of the counts / minute observed in the carbon tetrachloride to the counts / minute calculated for the carbon tetrachloride fractions for equilibrium distribution of the activity between the chlorine and carbon tetrachloride , empirically determined correction being made for the difference in counting efficiency of Af in Af and Af . 
Results the thermal reaction . 
-- In studying the liquid phase thermal reaction , some 70 tubes from 12 different manifold fillings were prepared and analyzed . 
Experiments were done at 180 , 200 , 210 , and 220-degrees . 
Following observation of the fact that the reaction rates of supposedly identical reaction mixtures prepared on the same filling manifold and exposed under identical conditions often differed by several hundred per cent , a systematic series of experiments was undertaken to see whether the difficulty could be ascribed to the method of preparing the chlorine , to the effects of oxygen or moisture or to the effect of surface to volume ratio in the reaction tubes . 
In addition to the method described in the section above , chlorine and radiochlorine were prepared by the electrolysis of a Af eutectic on the vacuum line , and by exchange of Af with molten Af . 
Calcium hydride was substituted for Af as a drying agent for carbon tetrachloride . 
No correlation between these variables and the irreproducibility of the results was found . 
The reaction rates observed at 200-degrees ranged from Af of the chlorine exchanged per hour to 0.7 exchanged per hour . 
In most cases the chlorine concentration was about Af . 
Sets of reaction tubes containing 0.2 of an atmosphere of added oxygen in one case and added moisture in another , both gave reaction rates in the range of 0.1 to 0.4 of the chlorine exchanged per hour . 
No detectable reaction was found at room temperature for reaction mixtures allowed to stand up to 5 hours . 
The liquid phase photochemical reaction . 
The liquid phase photochemical exchange between chlorine and carbon tetrachloride was more reproducible than the thermal exchange , although still erratic . 
The improvement was most noticeable in the greater consistency among reaction cells prepared as a group on the same manifold . 
Rather large differences were still found between reaction cells from different manifold fillings . 
Some 80 reaction tubes from 13 manifold fillings were illuminated in the temperature range from 40 to 85-degrees in a further endeavor to determine the cause of the irreproducibility and to obtain information on the activation energy and the effect of light intensity . 
In all cases there was readily measurable exchange after as little as one hour of illumination . 
By comparing reaction cells sealed from the same manifold temperature dependency corresponding to activation energies ranging from 11 to 18 Af was observed while dependence on the first power of the light intensity seemed to be indicated in most cases . 
It was possible to make estimates of the quantum yield by observing the extent of reduction of a uranyl oxalate actinometer solution illuminated for a known time in a typical reaction cell and making appropriate conversions based on the differences in the absorption spectra of uranyl oxalate and of chlorine , and considering the spectral distribution of the light source . 
These estimates indicated that the quantum yield for the exchange of chlorine with liquid carbon tetrachloride at 65-degrees is of the order of magnitude of unity . 
When typical reaction cells to which 0.3 of an atmosphere of oxygen had been added were illuminated , chlorine and phosgene were produced . 
Exchange was also observed in these cells , which had chlorine present at Af . 
The photochemical exchange in the gas phase . 
-- Although there was some variation in results which must be attributed either to trace impurities or to variation in wall effects , the photochemical exchange in the gas phase was sufficiently reproducible so that it seemed meaningful to compare the reaction rates in different series of reaction tubes for the purpose of obtaining information on the effect of chlorine concentration and of carbon tetrachloride concentration on the reaction rate . 
Data on such comparisons together with data on the effect of light intensity are given in Table 1 . 
, In series 1 , the relative light intensity was varied by varying the distance of the lamp from the reaction cell over the range from 14.7 to 29.2 cm. . 
The last column shows the rate of exchange that would have been observed at a relative intensity of 4 ( 14.7 cm. distance ) calculated on the assumptions that the incident light intensity is inversely proportional to the square of the distance of the lamp from the cell and that the rate is directly proportional to the incident light intensity . 
Direct proportionality of the rate to the incident intensity has also been assumed in obtaining the value in the last column for the fourth sample of series 2 , where the light intensity was reduced by use of a screen . 
The Poynting-Robertson effect ( Robertson , 1937 ; ; Wyatt and Whipple , 1950 ) , which is a retardation of the orbital motion of particles by the relativistic aberration of the repulsive force of the impinging solar radiation , causes the dust to spiral into the sun in times much shorter than the age of the Earth . 
The radial velocity varies inversely as the particle size -- a 1000-m-diameter particle near the orbit of Mars would reach the sun in about 60 million years . 
Whipple ( 1955 ) extends the effects to include the solar-corpuscular-radiation pressure , which increases both the minimum particle size and the drag . 
Further , the corpuscular radiation , i.e. , the solar-wind protons , must sputter away the surface atoms of the dust and cause a slow diminution in size , with a resultant increase in both the Poynting-Robertson effect and the ratio of the repulsive force to the gravitational force . 
The Poynting-Robertson effect causes the semi-major axis of orbits to diminish more rapidly than the semi-minor axis , with a consequent tendency toward circular orbits as the particles move toward the sun . 
Also , planetary gravitational attraction increases the dust concentration near the plane of the ecliptic as the sun is approached . 
At one astronomical unit from the sun ( the Earth's distance ) the dust orbits are probably nearly circular . 
If such is the case , the particles within a distance of about Af of the Earth will have , relative to the Earth , a kinetic energy less than their potential energy and they will be captured into orbits about the Earth . 
De Jager ( 1955 ) has calculated the times required for these particles to reach the atmosphere under the influence of the Poynting-Robertson effect , which in this case causes the orbits to become more and more eccentric without changing the semi-major axis . 
This effect can give rise to a blanket of micrometeorites around the Earth . 
Since there is a continual loss of micrometeoritic material in space because of the radiation effects , there must be a continual replenishment : otherwise , micrometeorites would have disappeared from interplanetary space . 
There are several possible sources . 
According to Whipple ( 1955 ) , cometary debris is sufficient to replenish the material spiraling into the sun , maintaining a fairly steady state . 
Asteroidal collisions are also thought to contribute material . 
It is also possible that some of the dust in the vicinity of the Earth originated from meteoritic impacts upon the moon . 
5.3 direct measurements of micrometeorite flux One cannot make a very satisfactory guess about the micrometeorite flux in space . 
Even in the neighborhood of the Earth , where information has been obtained both directly and indirectly , the derived flux values vary by at least four orders of magnitude . 
This large discrepancy demonstrates the inadequacies of the experimental methods and the lack of understanding of the various phenomena involved . 
Beyond a few million kilometers from the Earth , but still in the region of the Earth's orbit , a prediction of the flux of dust is even more unreliable . 
At greater distances from the sun , the situation is still less certain . 
There are several sources of evidence on the micrometeorite environment . 
Direct information has been obtained from rockets and satellites equipped with impact sensors . 
In addition , the size distribution obtained from visual and radar observations of meteors may be extrapolated to the micrometeorite domain . 
From the brightness of the F component of the solar corona and the brightness of the zodiacal light , an estimate of the particle sizes , concentrations , and spatial distribution can be derived for regions of space near the ecliptic plane . 
Another important source of evidence only recently receiving much attention is the analysis of atmospheric dust for a meteoritic component . 
The cores of deep-sea sediments and content of collectors in remote regions are valuable in this category . 
The data provide a measure of the total mass of cosmic material incident upon the Earth . 
The direct evidence on the micrometeorite environment near the Earth is obtained from piezoelectric sensors ( essentially microphones ) and from wire gages ; ; these instruments are installed on rockets , satellites , and space probes . 
Statistically , the most significant data have been collected from the sensors on 1958 Alpha ( Explorer 1 ) , 1958 Delta 2 ( Sputnik 3 ) , and 1959 Eta ( Vanguard 3 ) . 
These vehicles , with large sensitive areas , have collected data for long enough times to give reliable impact rates for the periods of exposure . 
Many other vehicles with smaller sensitive-area exposure-time products contribute some information . 
The impact rate on 1958 Alpha for 153 events was Af for particles of mass greater than Af ( Dubin , 1960 ) ; ; this mass threshold was derived from the detector calibration and an assumed impact velocity of Af . 
The data show daily and diurnal variations . 
Ninety per cent of the 153 recorded impacts occurred between midnight and noon , and from day to day the variation of the rate was as much as an order of magnitude . 
One may conclude that most of the detected micrometeoritic material is concentrated in orbital streams which intersect the Earth's orbit . 
There have been contradictory reports from 1958 Delta 2 , and the data quoted here are believed to be the more reliable . 
On May 15 , a very large increase occurred with Af of mass between Af and Af ; ; for the next two days , the impact rate was Af ; ; and for the next nine days , the impact rate was less than Af ( Nazarova , 1960 ) . 
The data for the first day indicate a meteor stream with a very high concentration of particles and may have led to the high estimates of micrometeorite flux . 
Preliminary data from 1959 Eta give an average impact rate of Af for masses larger than Af for about 1000 events in a 22-day period ( LaGow and Alexander , 1960 ) . 
The day-to-day rate varied by less than a factor of 4.5 . 
The data have not yet been analyzed for diurnal variations . 
Note that the mass threshold is four times that of 1958 Alpha and that the flux is one fifth as large . 
If one assumes that the average flux did not change between measurements , a mass-distribution curve is obtained which relates the flux of particles larger than a given radius to the inverse 7/2 power of the radius . 
Space probes have yielded little information . 
Pioneer 1 , recorded a decrease in flux with distance from the Earth on the basis of 11 counts in 9 hours . 
With detectors sensitive to three mass intervals and based on a few counts , the second and third Russian space probes indicate that the flux of the smallest particles detected is less than that of larger ones . 
Being based on so few events , these results are of dubious validity . 
The calibration of piezoelectric sensors in terms of the particle parameters is very uncertain . 
Many workers believe that the response is proportional to the incident momentum of the particles , a relation deduced from laboratory results linearly extrapolated to meteoritic velocities . 
However , one must expect that vaporization and ejection of material by hypervelocity impacts would cause a deviation from a linear relationship . 
In the United States , most of the sensors are calibrated by dropping small spheres on their sensitive surfaces . 
The Russian experimenters claim that only a small fraction of the impulse from the sensors is caused by the incident momentum with the remainder being momentum of ejected material from the sensor . 
This `` ejection '' momentum is linearly related to the particle energy . 
They quote about the same mass threshold as that of the U.S. apparatus , but a momentum threshold about 40 times greater . 
There is a difference in the experimental arrangement , in that the U.S. microphones are attached directly to the vehicle skin while the Russian instruments are isolated from the skin . 
The threshold mass is derived from the momentum threshold with the assumption of a mean impact velocity of Af in the U.S. work and Af in the U.S.S.R. work . 
The threshold mass of about Af corresponds to a 10-M-diameter sphere of density Af . 
However , the conversion from mass to size is unreliable , since many photographic meteors give evidence of a fluffy , loosely bound meteorite structure with densities as low as Af . 
To what extent such low density applies to micrometeorites is unknown . 
The velocity value used is also open to some question ; ; if a substantial fraction of the dust is orbiting about the Earth , only about one third the above-mentioned average velocity should be used in deriving the mass . 
Zodiacal light and the gegenschein give some evidence for such a dust blanket , a phenomenon also to be expected if the dust before capture is in circular orbits about the sun , as indicated by the trend of the smaller visible meteors . 
The diurnal variation in the observed flux may be partly due to the dependence of the detector sensitivity on the incident velocity . 
The flux of micrometeorites in the neighborhood of the Earth can be estimated by extrapolation from radar and visual meteor data . 
A summary of meteorite data , prepared by Whipple ( 1958 ) on the basis of photographic , visual , and radar evidence , is given in Table 5-1 . 
From an estimated mass of 25 g for a zero-magnitude meteorite , the other masses are derived with the assumption of a mass decrease by a factor of 2.512 for each unit increase in magnitude . 
The radius is calculated from the mass by assuming spheres of density Af except for the smallest particles , which must have a higher mass density to remain in the solar system in the presence of solar-radiation pressure . 
The flux values are for all particles with masses greater than the given mass and are based on an estimate of the numbers of visual meteors . 
It is assumed that the flux values increase by a factor of 2.512 per magnitude , in accordance with the opinion that the total mass flux in each unit range in magnitude is constant . 
The values agree with the data from 1958 Alpha and 1959 Eta . 
The figures in the next-to-last column are derived with the assumption of 50 per cent shielding by the Earth ; ; hence , these figures apply immediately above the Earth's atmosphere . 
The unshielded flux is given in the last column ; ; these figures constitute the best estimate for the flux in interplanetary space near the Earth . 
Of course , if there is a dust blanket around the Earth , the fluxes in interplanetary space should be less than the figures given here . 
Note that the mass scale is one to two orders of magnitude greater than some previously used ; ; for example , Jacchia ( 1948 ) derived a scale of 0.15 g for a Af , zero-magnitude meteorite . 
The older scales were based on theoretical estimates of the conversion efficiency of kinetic energy into light . 
The mass scale used in Table 5-1 was derived on the assumption that the motion of the glowing trail is related to the momentum transfer to the trail by the meteorite , permitting the calculation of the mass if the velocity is known ( Cook and Whipple , 1958 ) . 
A concentration distribution has been derived from radar observations sensitive to the fifteenth magnitude ( Manning and Eshleman , 1959 ) . 
Extrapolation of this relationship through the thirtieth magnitude covers the range of micrometeorites . 
The approximate equation is Af , where N is the number of Af with electron line-density greater than or equal to Af , and Q is proportional to the mass of the meteorite . 
Therefore , N is inversely proportional to the radius cubed and in fair agreement with the inverse 7/2 power derived from 1958 Alpha and 1959 Eta data . 
At the fifteenth magnitude , Af , and at the twenty-fifth magnitude , Af . 
These extrapolated fluxes are about an order of magnitude less than the values from the satellite data and the figures in Whipple's table . 
The extrapolation may be in error for several reasons . 
The observational data determining the concentration distribution have a range of error which is magnified in the extension into the micrometeorite region . 
The solar-electromagnetic- and corpuscular-radiation pressure and the associated Poynting-Robertson effect increase in effectiveness as the particle size decreases and modify the distribution and limit sizes to larger than a few microns . 
Also , it has been suggested that the source of all or part of the dust may not be the same as that for visual or radar meteorites ( Best , 1960 ) , and the same distribution would not be expected . 
5.4 . 
Indirect indications of micrometeorite flux A measure of the total mass accretion of meteoritic material by the Earth is obtained from analyses of deep-sea sediments and dust collected in remote regions ( Pettersson , 1960 ) . 
Most meteoritic material , by the time it reaches the Earth's surface , has been reduced to dust or to spherules of ablated material in its passage through the atmosphere . 
For all meteorites , the average nickel content is about 2.5 per cent . 
This is much higher than the nickel content of terrestrial dusts and sediments and provides a basis for the determination of the meteoritic mass influx . 
Present data indicate an accretion of about Af tons per year over the entire globe , or about Af . 
Biological warfare Biological warfare is the intentional use of living microorganisms or their toxic products for the purpose of destroying or reducing the military effectiveness of man . 
It is the exploitation of the inherent potential of infectious disease agents by scientific research and development , resulting in the production of BW weapons systems . 
Man may also be injured secondarily by damage to his food crops or domestic animals . 
Biological warfare is considered to be primarily a strategic weapon . 
The major reason for this is that it has no quick-kill effect . 
The incubation period of infectious disease , plus a variable period of illness even before a lethal effect , render this weapon unsuitable for hand-to-hand encounter . 
A man can be an effective fighting machine throughout the incubation period of most infectious diseases . 
Thus , an enemy would probably use this weapon for attack on static population centers such as large cities . 
An important operational procedure in BW for an enemy would be to create an areosol or cloud of agent over the target area . 
This concept has stimulated much basic research concerning the behavior of particulate biological materials , the pathogenesis of respiratory infections , the medical management of such diseases and defense against their occurrence . 
The biological and physical properties of infectious particles have been studied intensively during the past fifteen years . 
Much new equipment and many unique techniques have been developed for the quantitative exposure of experimental animals to aerosols of infectious agents contained in particles of specified dimensional characteristics . 
Much information has been gathered relative to quantitative sampling and assesment techniques . 
Much of the older experimental work on respiratory infections was accomplished by very artificial procedures . 
The intranasal instillation of a fluid suspension of infectious agent in an anesthetized animal is far different from exposure , through natural respiration , to aerosolized organisms . 
The importance of particle size in such aerosols has been thoroughly demonstrated . 
The natural anatomical and physiological defensive features of the upper respiratory tract , such as the turbinates of the nose and the cilia of the trachea and larger bronchi , are capable of impinging out the larger particles to which we are ordinarily exposed in our daily existence . 
Very small particles , however , in a size range of 1 to 4 microns in diameter are capable of passing these impinging barriers and entering the alveolar bed of the lungs . 
This area is highly susceptible to infection . 
The entrance and retention of infectious particles in the alveoli amounts almost to an intratissue inoculation . 
The relationship between particle size and infectious dose is illustrated in Table 1 . 
In considering BW defense , it must be recognized that a number of critical meterological parameters must be met for an aerosol to exhibit optimum effect . 
For example , bright sunlight is rapidly destructive for living microorganisms suspended in air . 
There are optimal humidity requirements for various agents when airborne . 
Neutral or inversion meteorological conditions are necessary for a cloud to travel along the surface . 
It will rise during lapse conditions . 
There are , of course , certain times during the 24-hour daily cycle when most of these conditions will be met . 
Certain other properties of small particles , in addition to those already mentioned in connection with penetration of the respiratory tract , are noteworthy in defense considerations . 
The smaller the particle the further it will travel downwind before settling out . 
An aerosol of such small particles , moreover , diffuses through structures in much the same manner as a gas . 
There may be a number of secondary effects resulting from diffusion through buildings such as widespread contamination of kitchens , restaurants , food stores , hospitals , etc. . 
Depending on the organism , there may be multiplication in some food or beverage products , i.e. , in milk for example . 
The secondary consequences from this could be very serious and must be taken into consideration in planning for defense . 
Something of the behavior of clouds of small particles can be illustrated by the following field trials : In the first trial an inert substance was disseminated from a boat travelling some ten miles off shore under appropriately selected meteorological conditions . 
Zinc cadmium sulfide in particles of 2 microns in size were disseminated . 
This material fluoresces under ultraviolet light which facilitates its sampling and assessment . 
Four hundred and fifty pounds was disseminated while the ship was traveling a distance of 156 miles . 
Figure 1 describes the results obtained in this trial . 
The particles traveled a maximum detected distance of some 450 miles . 
From these dosage isopleths it can be seen that an area of over 34,000 square miles was covered . 
These dosages could have been increased by increasing the source strength which was small in this case . 
The behavior of a biological aerosol , on a much smaller scale , is illustrated by a specific field trial conducted with a non-pathogenic organism . 
An aqueous suspension of the spores of B. subtilis , var. niger , generally known as Bacillus globigii , was aerosolized using commercially available nozzles . 
A satisfactory cloud was produced even though these nozzles were only about 5 per cent efficient in producing an initial cloud in the size range of 1 to 5 microns . 
In this test , 130 gallons of a suspension , having a count of Af organisms per ml , or a total of approximately Af spores , was aerosolized . 
The spraying operation was conducted from the rear deck of a small Naval vessel , cruising two miles off-shore and vertical to an on-sure breeze . 
Spraying continued along a two-mile course . 
This operation was started at 5:00 p.m. and lasted for 29 minutes . 
There was a slight lapse condition , a moderate fog , and 100 per cent relative humidity . 
A network of sampling stations had been set up on shore . 
These were located at the homes of Government employees , in Government Offices , buildings and reservations within the trial area . 
A rough attempt was made to characterize the vertical profile of the cloud by taking samples from outside the windows on the first , ninth , and fifteenth floors of a Government office building . 
All samplers were operated for a period of two hours except one , which was operated for four hours . 
In this instance , there was a dosage of 562 during the first two hours and a total dosage of 1980 for the four-hour period , a four-fold increase . 
This suggests that the sampling period , particularly at the more distant locations , should have been increased . 
As can be seen from Figure 2 , an extensive area was covered by this aerosol . 
The maximum distance sampled was 23 miles from the source . 
As can be seen from these dosage isopleths , approximately 100 square miles was covered within the area sampled . 
It is quite likely that an even greater area was covered , particularly downwind . 
The dosages in the three levels of the vertical profile were : Af . 
This was not , of course , enough sampling to give a satisfactory description of the vertical diffusion of the aerosol . 
A number of unique medical problems might be created when man is exposed to an infectious agent through the respiratory route rather than by natural portal of entry . 
Some agents have been shown to be much more toxic or infectious to experimental animals when exposed to aerosols of optimum particle size than by the natural portal . 
Botulinal toxin , for example , is several thousand-fold more toxic by this route than when given per os . 
In some instances a different clinical disease picture may result from this route of exposure , making diagnosis difficult . 
In tularemia produced by aerosol exposure , one would not expect to find the classical ulcer of `` rabbit fever '' on a finger . 
An enemy would obviously choose an agent that is believed to be highly infectious . 
Agents that are known to cause frequent infections among laboratory workers such as those causing Q fever , tularemia , brucellosis , glanders , coccidioidomycosis , etc. , belong in this category . 
An agent would likely be selected which would possess sufficient viability and virulence stability to meet realistic minimal logistic requirements . 
It is , obviously , a proper goal of research to improve on this property . 
In this connection it should be capable of being disseminated without excessive destruction . 
Moreover , it should not be so fastidious in its growth requirements as to make production on a militarily significant scale improbable . 
An aggressor would use an agent against which there was a minimal naturally acquired or artificially induced immunity in a target population . 
A solid immunity is the one effective circumstance whereby attack by a specific agent can be neutralized . 
It must be remembered , however , that there are many agents for which there is no solid immunity and a partial or low-grade immunity may be broken by an appropriate dose of agent . 
There is a broad spectrum of organisms from which selection for a specified military purpose might be made . 
An enemy might choose an acutely debilitating microorganism , a chronic disease producer or one causing a high rate of lethality . 
It is possible that certain mutational forms may be produced such as antibiotic resistant strains . 
Mutants may also be developed with changes in biochemical properties that are of importance in identification . 
All of these considerations are of critical importance in considering defense and medical management . 
Biological agents are , of course , highly host-specific . 
They do not destroy physical structures as is true of high explosives . 
This may be of overriding importance in considering military objectives . 
The question of epidemic disease merits some discussion . 
Only a limited effort has been devoted to this problem . 
Some of those who question the value of BW have assumed that the only potential would be in the establishment of epidemics . 
They then point out that with our present lack of knowledge of all the factors concerned in the rise and fall of epidemics , it is unlikely that a planned episode could be initiated . 
They argue further ( and somewhat contradictorily ) that our knowledge and resources in preventive medicine would make it possible to control such an outbreak of disease . 
This is why this approach to BW defense has not been given major attention . 
Our major problem is what an enemy might accomplish in an initial attack on a target . 
This , of course , does not eliminate from consideration for this purpose agents that are associated naturally with epidemic disease . 
A hypothetical example will illustrate this point . 
Let us assume that it would be possible for an enemy to create an aerosol of the causative agent of epidemic typhus ( Rickettsia prowazwki ) over City A and that a large number of cases of typhus fever resulted therefrom . 
No epidemic was initiated nor was one expected because the population in City A was not lousy . 
Lousiness is a prerequisite for epidemic typhus . 
In this case , then , the military objective was accomplished with an epidemic agent solely through the results secured in the initial attack . 
This was done with full knowledge that there would be no epidemic . 
On the other hand , a similar attack might have been made on City B whose population was known to be lousy . 
One might expect some spread of the disease in this case resulting in increased effectiveness of the attack . 
The major defensive problems are concerned with the possibility of overt military delivery of biological agents from appropriate disseminating devices . 
It should be no more difficult to deliver such devices than other weapons . 
The same delivery vehicles -- whether they be airplanes , submarines or guided missiles -- should be usable . 
If it is possible for an enemy to put an atomic bomb on a city , it should be equally possible to put a cloud of biological agent over that city . 
Biological agents are , moreover , suitable for delivery through enemy sabotage which imposes many problems in defense . 
A few obvious target areas of great importance might be mentioned . 
The air conditioning and ventilating systems of large buildings are subject to attack . 
America is rapidly becoming a nation that uses processed , precooked and even predigested foods . 
This is an enormous industry that is subject to sabotage . 
One must include the preparation of soft drinks and the processing of milk and milk products . 
Huge industries are involved also in the production of biological products , drugs and cosmetics which are liable to this type of attack . 
A variety of techniques have been directed toward the isolation and study of blood group antibodies . 
These include low-temperature ethanol ( Cohn ) fractionation , electrophoresis , ultracentrifugation and column chromatography on ion exchange celluloses . 
Modifications of the last technique have been applied by several groups of investigators . 
Abelson and Rawson , using a stepwise elution scheme , fractionated whole sera containing ABO and Rh antibodies on diethylaminoethyl DEAE cellulose and carboxymethyl cellulose . 
Speer and coworkers , in a similar study of blood group antibodies of whole sera , used a series of gradients for elution from Aj . 
Fahey and Morrison used a single , continuous gradient at constant pH for the fractionation of anti-A and anti-B agglutinins from preisolated **yg-globulin samples . 
In the present work whole sera have been fractionated by chromatography on DEAE-cellulose using single gradients similar to those described by Sober and Peterson , and certain chemical and serological properties of the fractions containing antibodies of the ABO and Rh systems have been described . 
Materials and methods samples . 
Serum samples were obtained from normal group A , group B and group O donors . 
Three of the anti-Rh sera used were taken from recently sensitized individuals . 
One contained complete antibody and had a titer of 1 : 512 in saline . 
The second contained incomplete antibody and showed titers of 1 : 256 in albumin and 1 : 2048 by the indirect Coombs test . 
The third , containing the mixed type of complete and incomplete antibodies , had titers of 1 : 256 in saline , 1 : 512 in albumin and 1 : 1024 by the indirect Coombs test . 
In addition one serum was obtained from a donor ( R. E. ) who had been sensitized 6 years previously . 
This serum exhibited titers of 1 : 16 in albumin and 1 : 256 by the indirect Coombs test . 
These antibody titers were determined by reaction with homozygous Af red cells . 
Serological technique . 
Anti-A and anti-B activities were determined in fractions from the sera of group A , group B or group O donors by the following tube agglutination methods . 
One drop of each sample was added to one drop of a 2% suspension of group Af or group B red cells in a small Af test tube . 
In several instances group O cells were also used as controls . 
The red cells were used within 2 days after donation and were washed with large amounts of saline before use . 
The mixtures of sample plus cell suspension were allowed to stand at room temperature for 1 Aj . 
The tubes were then centrifuged at 1000 rpm for 1 min and examined macroscopically for agglutination . 
For the albumin method , equal volumes of 30% bovine albumin , sample and 2% cells suspended in saline were allowed to stand at room temperature for 1 hr and then were centrifuged at 1000 rpm for 1 Aj . 
All samples were tested by both the saline and albumin methods . 
The activities of fractions of sera containing Rh antibodies were tested by the saline , albumin and indirect Coombs techniques . 
Homozygous and heterozygous Af cells , Af and homozygous and heterozygous Af cells were used to test each sample ; ; however , in the interest of clarity and conciseness only the results obtained with homozygous Af and homozygous Af cells will be presented here . 
The saline and albumin tests were performed as described for the ABO samples except that the mixture was incubated for 1 hr at 37-degrees-C before centrifugation . 
The saline tubes were saved and used for the indirect Coombs test in the following manner . 
The cells were washed three times with saline , anti-human serum was added , the cells were resuspended , and the mixture was centrifuged at 1000 rpm for 1 min and examined for agglutination . 
The anti-human sera used were prepared by injecting whole human serum into rabbits . 
Those antisera shown by immunoelectrophoresis to be of the `` broad spectrum '' type were selected for use in the present study . 
The red cells for the Rh antibody tests were used within 3 days after drawing except for the Af cells , which had been glycerolized and stored at -20-degrees-C for approximately 1 year . 
These cells were thawed at 37-degrees-C for 30 min and were deglycerolized by alternately centrifuging and mixing with descending concentrations of glycerol solutions ( 20 , 18 , 10 , 8 , 4 and 2% ) . 
The cells were then washed three times with saline and resuspended to 2% in saline . 
Chromatography . 
Blood samples were allowed to clot at room temperature for 3 hr , centrifuged and the serum was removed . 
The serum was measured volumetrically and subsequently dialyzed in the cold for at least 24 hr against three to four changes , approximately 750 ml each , of `` starting buffer '' . 
This buffer , pH 8.6 , was 0.005 M in Af and 0.039 M in tris(hydroxymethyl)-aminometha ( Tris ) . 
After dialysis the sample was centrifuged and the supernatant placed on a Af cm column of EEAE-cellulose equilibrated with starting buffer . 
The DEAE-cellulose , containing 0.78 mEq of N/g , was prepared in our laboratory by the method of Peterson and Sober ( 7 ) from powdered cellulose , 100 - 230 mesh . 
The small amount of insoluble material which precipitated during dialysis was suspended in approximately 5 ml of starting buffer , centrifuged , resuspended in 2.5 ml of isotonic saline and tested for antibody activity . 
The chromatography was done at 6-degrees-C using gradient elution , essentially according to Sober and Peterson . 
The deep concave gradient employed ( fig. 2 ) was obtained with a nine-chambered gradient elution device ( `` Varigrad '' , reference ( 8 ) ) and has been described elsewhere . 
The other , a shallow concave gradient ( Fig. 1 ) , was produced with a so-called `` cone-sphere '' apparatus , the `` cone '' being a 2-liter Erlenmeyer flask and the `` sphere , '' a 2-liter round-bottom flask . 
Each initially contained 1700 ml of buffer ; ; in the sphere was starting buffer and in the cone was final buffer , 0.50 M in both Af and Tris , pH 4.1 . 
A flow rate of 72 Af was used and 12 ml fractions were collected . 
Approximately 165 fractions were obtained from each column . 
These were read at 280 m**ym in a Beckman model DU spectrophotometer and tested for antibody activity as described above . 
Paper electrophoresis . 
For protein identification , fractions from the column were concentrated by pervaporation against a stream of air at 5-degrees-C or by negative pressure dialysis in an apparatus which permitted simultaneous concentration of the protein and dialysis against isotonic saline . 
During the latter procedure the temperature was maintained at 2-degrees-C by surrounding the apparatus with ice . 
Because negative pressure dialysis gave better recovery of proteins , permitted detection of proteins concentrated from very dilute solutions and was a gentler procedure , it was used in all but the earliest experiments . 
Paper electrophoresis was carried out on the concentrated samples in a Spinco model R cell using barbital buffer , pH 8.6 , ionic strength 0.075 , at room temperature on Whatman 3MM filter paper . 
Five milliamperes/cell were applied for 18 hr , after which the strips were stained with bromphenol blue and densitometry was carried out using a Spinco Analytrol . 
When paper electrophoresis was to be used for preparation , eight strips of a whole serum sample or a chromatographic fraction concentrated by negative pressure dialysis were run/chamber under the conditions described above . 
At the end of the run , the strips in the third and sixth positions in each chamber were dried , stained for 1 hr , washed and dried , while the other strips were maintained in a horizontal position at 1-degree-C . 
The unstained strips were then marked , using the stained ones as a guide , and cut transversely so as to separate the various protein bands . 
The strip sections containing a given protein were pooled , eluted with 0.5 ml of isotonic saline , and the eluates were tested for antibody activity . 
Ultracentrifugation . 
Fractions from the column which were to be subjected to analytical ultracentrifugation were concentrated by negative pressure dialysis and dialyzed for 16 hr in the cold against at least 500 volumes of phosphate-buffered saline , pH 7.2 , ionic strength 0.154 . 
They were then centrifuged at 59,780 Pm for 35 to 80 min at 20-degrees-C in a Spinco model E ultracentrifuge at a protein concentration of 1.00 to 1.25% . 
Sedimentation coefficients were computed as Af values and relative amounts of the various components were calculated from the Schlieren patterns . 
For preparative ultracentrifugation , fractions from the column were concentrated by negative pressure dialysis to volumes of 1 ml or less , transferred to cellulose tubes and diluted to 12 ml with isotonic saline . 
Ultracentrifugation was then carried out in a Spinco model L ultracentrifuge at 40,000 rpm for 125 to 150 min , refrigeration being used throughout the run . 
Successive 1-ml fractions were then drawn off with a hypodermic syringe , starting at the top of the tube , and tested for agglutinin activity . 
Other methods will be described below . 
Experimental and results The insoluble material which precipitated during dialysis against starting buffer always showed intense agglutinin activity , regardless of the blood group of the donor . 
With either of the gradients described , chromatography on DEAE-cellulose separated agglutinins of the ABO series into at least three regions ( Figs. 1 and 2 ) : one of extremely low anionic binding capacity , one of low anionic binding capacity and one of high anionic binding capacity . 
These have been labeled Regions 1 , 2 , and 4 , respectively , in Fig. 1 . 
When the early part of the gradient was flattened , either by using the gradient shown in Fig. 2 or by allowing the `` cone-sphere '' gradient to become established more slowly , Region 2 activity could sometimes be separated into two areas ( donors P. J. and R. S. , Fig. 1 and E. M. , Fig. 2 ) . 
The latter procedure gave rise to a small active protein peak ( Region 1a ) between Regions 1 and 2 . 
In 2 of 15 experiments on whole serum a region of agglutinin activity with intermediate anionic binding capacity was detected ( Region 3 , Fig. 1 ) . 
Moreover , after concentration using negative pressure dialysis , agglutinin activity could sometimes be detected in the region designated 2a ( donors P. J. , D. A. , and J. F. , Fig. 1 ) . 
Not all these regions exhibited equal agglutinating activity , as evidenced by titer and the extent of the active areas . 
In all cases , most of the activity lay in the region of high anionic binding capacity . 
This was particularly noticeable in group A and group B sera , in which cases activity in Regions 1 and 2 was usually not detectable without prior concentration and occasionally could not be detected at all . 
There appeared to be no difference in the distribution of anti-A and anti-B activity in group O serum , though in two group O donors ( J. F. and E. M. ) only one type of agglutinin was found in the regions of low anionic binding capacity ( Figs. 1 and 2 ) . 
Several samples of citrated plasma were fractionated in our laboratory by Method 6 of Cohn et al . 
These fractions were tested for ABO agglutinin activity , using fractions from group AB plasma as a control . 
As expected , most of the activity was found in Fraction Af , with slight activity seen in Fraction 4-1 . 
A sample of Fraction Af from group O plasma was dissolved in starting buffer , dialyzed against this buffer and subjected to chromatography using the gradient shown in Fig. 2 . 
Once again , both anti-A and anti-B activities were found in the insoluble material precipitated during dialysis . 
Similarly , both types of antibodies were found in three regions of the chromatographic eluate , having extremely low , low , and high anionic binding capacity , respectively ( Fig. 3 ) . 
Chromatography of whole sera revealed that the areas of Rh antibody activity were generally continuous and wide . 
The incomplete antibody activity appeared in the early part of the chromatogram ; ; the complete , in the latter part . 
The serum containing the mixed type of complete and incomplete antibodies showed activity in both regions ( Fig. 1 ) . 
In all cases the activity against Af cells was spread over a wider area than that with Af cells , regardless of the type of test ( saline , albumin , indirect Coombs ) used for comparison . 
The insoluble material resulting from dialysis against starting buffer always showed strong activity . 
In fact agglutination of Af cells in saline could be produced by the insoluble material from sera containing `` only '' incomplete antibody activity . 
This was later known to be the result of concentrating the minute amount of complete antibody found in these sera ; ; when the insoluble fraction was suspended in a volume of saline equal to that of the original serum sample , no complete antibody activity could be detected . 
Apart from the honeybee , practically all bees and bumblebees hibernate in a state of torpor . 
Occasionally , you may come across one or two bumblebees in the cold season , when you are turning over sods in your garden , but you have to be a really keen observer to see them at all . 
They keep their wings and feet pressed tightly against their bodies , and in spite of their often colorful attire you may very well mistake them for lumps of dirt . 
I must add at once that these animals are what we call `` queens '' , young females that have mated in the previous summer or autumn . 
It is on them alone that the future of their race depends , for all their relatives ( mothers , husbands , brothers , and unmated sisters ) have perished with the arrival of the cold weather . 
Even some of the queens will die before the winter is over , falling prey to enemies or disease . 
The survivors emerge on some nice , sunny day in March or April , when the temperature is close to 50-degrees and there is not too much wind . 
Now the thing for us to do is to find ourselves a couple of those wonderful flowering currants such as the red Ribes sanguineum of our Pacific Northwest , or otherwise a good sloe tree , or perhaps some nice pussy willow in bloom , preferably one with male or staminate catkins . 
The blooms of Ribes and of the willow and sloe are the places where large numbers of our early insects will assemble : honeybees , bumblebees , and other wild bees , and also various kinds of flies . 
It is a happy , buzzing crowd . 
Each male willow catkin is composed of a large number of small flowers . 
It is not difficult to see that the stamens of the catkin are always arranged in pairs , and that each individual flower is nothing but one such pair standing on a green , black-tipped little scale . 
By scrutinizing the flowers , one can also notice that the scale bears one or two tiny warts . 
Those are the nectaries or honey glands ( Fig. 26 , page 74 ) . 
The staminate willow catkins , then , provide their visitors with both nectar and pollen ; ; a marvelous arrangement , for it provides exactly what the bee queens need to make their beebread , a combination of honey and pollen with which the young of all species are fed . 
The only exception to this is certain bees that have become parasites . 
I will deal with these later on . 
Quite often , honeybees form a majority on the willow catkins . 
As we have already seen in the first chapter , bumblebees are bigger , hairier , and much more colorful than honeybees , exhibiting various combinations of black , yellow , white and orange . 
Let us not try to key them out at this stage of the game , and let us just call them Bombus . 
There must be several dozen species in the United States alone . 
If you really insist on knowing their names , an excellent book on the North American species is Bumblebees And Their Ways by O. E. Plath . 
If we manage to keep track of a Bombus queen after she has left her feeding place , we may discover the snug little hideout which she has fixed up for herself when she woke up from her winter sleep . 
As befits a queen , a bumblebee female is rather choosy and may spend considerable time searching for a suitable nesting place . 
Most species seem to prefer a ready-made hollow such as a deserted mouse nest , a bird house , or the hole made by a woodpecker ; ; some show a definite liking for making their nest in moss . 
Once she has made up her mind , the queen starts out by constructing , in her chosen abode , a small `` floor '' of dried grass or some woolly material . 
On this , she builds an `` egg compartment '' or `` egg cell '' which is filled with that famous pollen-and-nectar mixture called beebread . 
She also builds one or two waxen cups which she fills with honey . 
Then , a group of eggs is deposited in a cavity in the beebread loaf and the egg compartment is closed . 
The queen afterward keeps incubating and guarding her eggs like a mother hen , taking a sip from time to time from the rather liquid honey in her honey pots . 
When the larvae hatch , they feed on the beebread , although they also receive extra honey meals from their mother . 
She continues to add to the pollen supply as needed . 
The larvae , kept warm by the queen , are full grown in about ten days . 
Each now makes a tough , papery cocoon and pupates . 
After another two weeks , the first young emerge , four to eight small daughters that begin to play the role of worker bees , collecting pollen and nectar in the field and caring for the new young generation while the queen retires to a life of egg laying . 
The first worker bees do not mate or lay eggs ; ; males and mating females do not emerge until later in the season . 
The broods of workers that appear later tend to be bigger than the first ones , probably because they are better fed . 
By the middle of the summer , many of the larvae apparently receive such a good diet that it is `` optimal '' , and it is then that young queens begin to appear . 
Simultaneously , males or drones are produced , mostly from the unfertilized eggs of workers , although a few may be produced by the queen . 
The young queens and drones leave the nest and mate , and after a short period of freedom , the fertilized young queens will begin to dig in for the winter . 
It is an amazing fact that in some species this will happen while the summer is still in full swing , for instance , in August . 
The temperature then is still very high . 
At the old nest , the queen will in the early fall cease to lay the fertilized eggs that will produce females . 
As a result , the proportion of males ( which leave the nest ) increases , and eventually the old colony will die out completely . 
The nest itself , the structure that in some cases housed about 2,000 individuals when the season was at its peak , is now rapidly destroyed by the scavenging larvae of certain beetles and moths . 
Not always , though , does the development of a bumblebee colony take place in the smooth fashion we have just described . 
Some members of the bee family have become idlers , social parasites that live at the expense of their hardworking relatives . 
Bumblebees can thus suffer severely from the onslaughts of Psithyrus , the `` cuckoo-bumblebee '' as it is called in some European countries . 
Female individuals of Psithyrus look deceptively like the workers and queens of the bumblebees they victimize . 
The one sure way to tell victim and villain apart is to examine the hind legs which in the case of the idler , Psithyrus , lack the pollen baskets -- naturally ! 
The female parasite spends much time in her efforts to find a nest of her host . 
When she succeeds , she usually manages to slip in unobtrusively , to deposit an egg on a completed loaf of beebread before the bumblebees seal the egg compartment . 
The hosts never seem to recognize that something is amiss , so that the compartment afterward is sealed normally . 
Thus , the larvae of the intruder can develop at the expense of the rightful inhabitants and the store of beebread . 
Later on , they and the mother Psithyrus are fed by the Bombus workers . 
Worse still , in a number of cases it has been claimed that the Psithyrus female kills the Bombus queen . 
But let us return , after this gruesome interlude , to our willow catkins in the spring ; ; there are other wild bees that command our attention . 
It is almost certain that some of these , usually a trifle smaller than the honeybees , are andrenas or mining bees . 
There are about 200 different kinds of Andrena in Europe alone . 
One of my favorites is A. armata , a species very common in England , where it is sometimes referred to as the lawn bee . 
The females like to burrow in the short turf of well-kept lawns , where their little mounds of earth often appear by the hundreds . 
Almost equal in size to a honeybee , A. armata is much more beautiful in color , at least in the female of the species : a rich , velvety , rusty red . 
The males are much duller . 
After having mated , an Andrena female digs a hole straight down into the ground , forming a burrow about the size of a lead pencil . 
The bottom part of a burrow has a number of side tunnels or `` cells '' , each of which is provided with an egg plus a store of beebread . 
The development of the Andrena larvae is very rapid , so that by the end of spring they have already pupated and become adults . 
But they are still enclosed in their larval cells and remain there throughout the summer , fall , and winter . 
Their appearance , next spring , coincides in an almost uncanny way with the flowering of their host plants . 
In the Sacramento valley in California , for instance , it has been observed that there was not one day's difference between the emergence of the andrenas and the opening of the willow catkins . 
This must be due to a completely identical response to the weather , in the plant and the animal . 
After the male and female andrenas have mated , the cycle is repeated . 
Although Andrena is gregarious , so that we may find hundreds and hundreds of burrows together , we must still call it a solitary bee . 
Its life history is much simpler than that of the truly colonial bumblebees and can serve as an example of the life cycle of many other species . 
After all , social life in the group of the bees is by no means general , although it certainly is a striking feature . 
On the basis of its life history , we like to think that Andrena is more primitive than the bumblebees . 
The way in which it transports its pollen is not so perfect , either . 
It lacks pollen baskets and possesses only a large number of long , branched hairs on its legs , on which the pollen grains will collect . 
Still Andrena will do a reasonably good job , so that an animal with a full pollen load looks like a gay little piece of yellow down floating in the wind . 
Closely related to the andrenas are the nomias or alkali bees . 
Nomia melanderi can be found in tremendous numbers in certain parts of the United States west of the Great Plains , for example , in Utah and central Washington . 
In the United States Department of Agriculture's Yearbook Of Agriculture , 1952 , which is devoted entirely to insects , George E. Bohart mentions a site in Utah which was estimated to contain 200,000 nesting females . 
Often the burrows are only an inch or two apart , and the bee cities cover several acres . 
The life history of the alkali bee is similar to that of Andrena , but the first activity of the adults does not take place until summer , and the individuals hibernate in the prepupal stage . 
In most places , there are two generations a year , a second brood of adults appearing late in the summer . 
I must plead guilty to a special sympathy for nomias . 
This may just be pride in my adopted State of Washington , but certainly I love to visit their mound cities near Yakima and Prosser in July or August , when the bees are in their most active period . 
The name `` alkali bee '' indicates that one has to look for them in rather inhospitable places . 
Sometimes , although by no means always , these are indeed alkaline . 
The thing is that these bees love a fine-grained soil that is moist ; ; yet the water in the ground should not be stagnant either . 
They dislike dense vegetation . 
Where does one find such conditions ? 
The best chance , of course , is offered by gently sloping terrain where the water remains close to the surface and where the air is dry , so that a high evaporation leaves salty deposits which permit only sparse plant growth . 
Many other ( probably nearly all ) snakes at maturity are already more than half their final length . 
Laurence M. Klauber put length at maturity at two thirds the ultimate length for some rattlesnakes , and Charles C. Carpenter's data on Michigan garter and ribbon snakes ( Thamnophis ) show that the smallest gravid females are more than half as long as the biggest adults . 
Felix Kopstein states that `` when the snake reaches its maturity it has already reached about its maximal length '' , but goes on to cite the reticulate python as an exception , with maximum length approximately three times that at maturity . 
It is hard to understand how he concluded that most snakes do not grow appreciably after attaining maturity ; ; he was working with species of Java , so perhaps some tropical snakes are unusual in this respect . 
Certain individual giants recorded later did fail to show a reasonable difference after maturity , but it is impossible to know whether this is due to captive conditions . 
Additional records of slow growth have been omitted . 
It is possible to make a few generalizations about the six giants themselves . 
There seems to be a rough correlation between the initial and ultimate lengths , starting with the smallest ( boa constrictor ) and ending with the largest ( anaconda ) . 
Data on the former are scanty , but there can be little doubt that the latter is sometimes born at a length greater than that of any of the others , thereby lending support to the belief that the anaconda does , indeed , attain the greatest length . 
For four of the six ( the anaconda and the amethystine python cannot be included for lack of data ) there is also a correlation between size at maturity and maximum length , the boa constrictor being the smallest and the Indian python the next in size at the former stage . 
Let us speculate a little on the maximum size of the anaconda . 
If , in a certain part of the range , it starts life 1 foot longer than do any of the other ( relatively large ) giants , and reaches maturity at , let us guess , 18 inches longer than the others , a quadrupling of the maturity length would result in a maximum of ( nearly ) 40 feet . 
When it comes to rate of early growth , the Indian python leads with a figure of about 3 feet 6 inches per year for the first two years , more or less . 
The African rock python , a close second , is followed in turn by the reticulate python . 
There are few data on the boa constrictor , those for the anaconda are unconvincing , and there is nothing at all on the amethystine python . 
It seems likely that the Indian python comes out ahead because records of its growth have been made more carefully and frequently ; ; it responds exceptionally well to captivity and does not reach proportions that make it hard to keep . 
I cannot make sense out of the figures for post maturity growth ; ; at best the annual increase appears to be a matter of inches rather than feet . 
Until better records have been kept over longer periods of time and much more is known about the maximum dimensions , it will be wise to refrain from drawing conclusions . 
It is often stated that the largest snakes require five years to attain maturity , but this apparently is an overestimation . 
The best way to determine the correct figure ( in captives ) is by direct observation of pairs isolated from birth , a method that produced surprising results : maturing of a male Indian python in less than two years , his mate in less than three ; ; data on the boa constrictor about match this . 
Another approach is to estimate from the rate of growth and the smallest size at maturity . 
Results from this approach amply confirm the direct observations : about three years are required , there being a possible slight difference between males and females in the time required . 
Only the amethystine python and the anaconda must be excluded for lack or paucity of data . 
The following information on snakes varying greatly in size ( but all with less than a 10-foot maximum ) shows , when considered with the foregoing , that there is probably no correlation between the length of a snake and the time required for it to mature . 
Oliver , in his summary of the habits of the snakes of the United States , could supply data on the maturing period for only three species in addition to the rattlers , which I shall consider separately . 
These three were much alike : lined snake ( Tropidoclonion ) , one year and nine months ; ; red-bellied snake ( Storeria ) , two years ; ; cottonmouth ( Ancistrodon ) , two years . 
Klauber investigated the rattlesnakes carefully himself and also summarized what others have found . 
He concluded that in the southern species , which are rapidly growing types , females mate at the age of two and a half and bear the first young when they are three . 
Other herpetologists have ascertained that in the northern United States the prairie rattlesnake may not give first birth until it is four or even five years old , and that the young may be born every other year , rather than annually . 
Carpenter's study showed that female common garter and ribbon snakes of Michigan mature at about the age of two . 
Maximum length Oversized monsters are never brought home either alive or preserved , and field measurements are obviously open to doubt because of the universal tendency to exaggerate dimensions . 
Measurements of skins are of little value ; ; every snake hide is noticeably longer than its carcass and intentional stretching presents no difficulty to the unscrupulous explorer . 
In spite of all the pitfalls , there is a certain amount of agreement on some of the giants . 
The anaconda proves to be the fly in the ointment , but the reason for this is not clear ; ; the relatively wild conditions still found in tropical South America might be responsible . 
There are three levels on which to treat the subject . 
The first is the strictly scientific , which demands concrete proof and therefore may err on the conservative side by waiting for evidence in the flesh . 
This approach rejects virtually all field measurements . 
The next level attempts to weigh varied evidence and come to a balanced , sensible conclusion ; ; field measurements by experienced explorers are not rejected , and even reports of a less scientific nature are duly evaluated . 
The third level leans on a belief that a lot of smoke means some fire . 
The argument against this last approach is comparable to that which rejects stories about hoop snakes , about snakes that break themselves into many pieces and join up again , or even of ghosts that chase people out of graveyards ; ; the mere piling up of testimony does not prove , to the scientific mind , the existence of hoop snakes , joint snakes , or ghosts . 
Oliver has recently used the second-level approach with the largest snakes , and has come to these conclusions : the anaconda reaches a length of at least 37 feet , the reticulate python 33 , the African rock python 25 , the amethystine python at least 22 , the Indian python 20 , and the boa constrictor 18-1/2 . 
Bernard Heuvelmans also treats of the largest snakes , but on the third level , and is chiefly concerned with the anaconda . 
He reasons that as anacondas 30 feet long are often found , some might be 38 , and occasional `` monstrous freaks '' over 50 . 
He rejects dimensions of 70 feet and more . 
His thirteenth chapter includes many exciting accounts of huge serpents with prodigious strength , but these seem to be given to complete his picture , not to be believed . 
Detailed information on record lengths of the giants is given in the section that follows . 
Growth of the six giants Discussions of the giants one by one will include , as far as possible , data on these aspects of growth : size at which life is started and at which sexual maturity is reached ; ; time required to reach maturity ; ; rate of growth both before and after this crucial stage ; ; and maximum length , with confirmation or amplification of Oliver's figures . 
Definite information on the growth of senile individuals is lacking . 
Anaconda : At birth , this species varies considerably in size . 
A brood of twenty-eight born at Brookfield Zoo , near Chicago , ranged in length from 22 to 33-1/2 inches and averaged 29 inches . 
Lawrence E. Griffin gives measurements of nineteen young anacondas , presumably members of a brood , from `` South America '' ; ; the extreme measurements of these fall between the lower limit of the Brookfield brood and its average . 
Raymond L. Ditmars had two broods that averaged 27 inches . 
R. R. Mole and F. W. Urich give approximately 20 inches as the average length of a brood of thirty from the region of the Orinoco estuaries . 
William Beebe reports 26 inches and 2.4 ounces ( this snake must have been emaciated ) for the length and the weight of a young anaconda from British Guiana . 
In contrast , Ditmars recorded the average length of seventy-two young of a 19-foot female as 38 inches , and four young were born in London at a length of 35 or 36 inches and a weight of from 14 to 16 ounces . 
Beebe had a 3-foot anaconda that weighed only 9.8 ounces . 
A difference between subspecies might explain the great range in size . 
I have little information on the anaconda's rate of growth . 
Hans Schweizer had one that increased from 19-1/2 inches to 5 feet 3 inches in five years , and J. J. Quelch records a growth of from less than 4 feet to nearly 10 in about six years . 
It is very unlikely that either of these anacondas was growing at a normal rate . 
In 1948 , Afranio Do Amaral , the noted Brazilian herpetologist , wrote a technical paper on the giant snakes . 
He concluded that the anaconda's maximum length is 12 or 13 ( perhaps 14 ) meters , which would approximate from 39 to 42 feet ( 14 meters is slightly less than 46 feet ) . 
Thus , his estimate lies between Oliver's suggestion of at least 37 feet and the 50-foot `` monstrous freaks '' intimated by Heuvelmans . 
The most convincing recent measurement of an anaconda was made in eastern Colombia by Roberto Lamon , a petroleum geologist of the Richmond Oil Company , and reported in 1944 by Emmett R. Dunn . 
However , as a field measurement , it is open to question . 
Oliver's 37-1/2 feet is partly based on this report and can be accepted as probable . 
However , many herpetologists remain skeptical and would prefer a tentative maximum of about 30 feet . 
It is possible that especially large anacondas will prove to belong to subspecies limited to a small area . 
In snakes difference in size is a common characteristic of subspecies . 
Boa constrictor : A Colombian female's brood of sixteen boa constrictors born in the Staten Island Zoo averaged 20 inches . 
This birth length seems to be typical . 
When some thirteen records of newly and recently born individuals are collated , little or no correlation between length and distribution can be detected . 
The range is from 14 to 25 inches ; ; the former figure is based on a somewhat unusual birth of four by a Central American female ( see chapter on Laying , Brooding , Hatching , and Birth ) , the latter on a `` normal '' newly born individual . 
However , as so many of the records are not certainly based on newborn snakes , these data must be taken tentatively ; ; final conclusions will have to await the measurements of broods from definite localities . 
Alphonse R. Hoge's measurements of several very young specimens from Brazil suggest that at birth the female is slightly larger than the male . 
I have surprisingly little information on the size and age at maturity . 
Carl Kauffeld has written to me of sexual activity in February 1943 of young born in March 1940 . 
One female , collected on an island off the coast of Nicaragua , was gravid and measured 4 feet 8 inches from snout to vent ( her tail should be between 6 and 7 inches long ) . 
The female from Central America which gave birth to four was only 3 feet 11 inches long . 
What data there are on growth indicate considerable variation in rate ; ; unfortunately , no one has kept complete records of one individual , whereas many have been made for a very short period of time . 
The results are too varied to allow generalization . 
The bronchus and pulmonary artery in this lung type maintain a close relationship throughout . 
The pulmonary vein , however , without the limiting supportive tissue septa as in type 1 , , follows a more direct path to the hilum and does not maintain this close relationship ( figs. 8 , 22 ) . 
Another marked difference is noted here . 
The pulmonary artery , in addition to supplying the distal portion of the respiratory bronchiole , the alveolar duct , and the alveoli , continues on and directly supplies the thin pleura ( fig. 8 ) . 
The bronchial artery , except for a small number of short branches in the hilum , contributes none of the pleural blood supply . 
It does , as in type 1 , , supply the hilar lymph nodes , the pulmonary artery , the pulmonary vein , the bronchi , and the bronchioles -- terminating in a common capillary bed with the pulmonary artery at the level of the respiratory bronchiole . 
No bronchial artery-pulmonary artery anastomoses were noted in this group . 
Lung type 3 ( ( fig. 3 ) is to some degree a composite of types 1 , and 2 . 
It is characterized by the presence of incompletely developed secondary lobules ; ; well defined , but haphazardly arranged , interlobular septa and a thick , remarkably vascular pleura ( fig. 9 ) . 
The most distal airways are similar to those found in type 1 , , being composed of numerous , apparently true terminal bronchioles and occasional , poorly developed respiratory bronchioles ( figs. 14 , 15 ) . 
In this instance , because of incomplete septation , the secondary lobule does not constitute in itself what appears to be a small individual lung as in type 1 . 
Air-drifts from one area to another are , therefore , conceivable . 
Distally the bronchus is situated between a pulmonary artery on one side and a pulmonary vein on the other , as in type 1 ( ( fig. 24 ) . 
This relationship , however , is not maintained centrally . 
Here the pulmonary vein , as in type 2 , , is noted to draw away from the bronchus , and to follow a more direct , independent course to the hilum ( figs. 23 , 24 ) . 
The bronchial artery in its course and distribution differs somewhat from that found in other mammals . 
As seen in types 1 , and 2 , , it supplies the hilar lymph nodes , vasa vasorum to the pulmonary artery and vein , the bronchi and the terminal bronchioles . 
As in type 1 , , it provides arterial blood to the interlobular septa , and an extremely rich anastomotic pleural supply is seen ( figs. 9 , 10 ) . 
This pleural supply is derived both from hilar and interlobular bronchial artery branches . 
Such a dual derivation was strikingly demonstrated during the injection process where initial filling would be noted to occur in several isolated pleural vessels at once . 
Some of these were obviously filling from interlobular branches of the bronchial arteries while others were filling from direct hilar branches following along the pleural surface . 
With completion of filling , net-like anastomoses were noted to be present between these separately derived branches . 
An unusual increase in the number of bronchial arteries present within the substance of the lung was noted . 
This was accounted for primarily by the presence of a bronchial artery closely following the pulmonary artery . 
The diameter of this bronchial artery was much too large for it to be a mere vasa vasorum ( figs. 16 , 23 , 24 ) . 
In distal regions its diameter would be one-fourth to one-fifth that of the pulmonary artery . 
This vessel could be followed to the parenchyma where it directly provided bronchial arterial blood to the alveolar capillary bed ( figs. 17 , 18 ) . 
Also three other direct pathways of alveolar bronchial arterial supply were noted : via the pleura ; ; through the interlobular septa ; ; and along the terminal bronchiole ( figs. 14 , 17 , 18 , 19 ) . 
One bronchial arteriolar-pulmonary arteriolar anastomosis was noted at the terminal bronchiolar level ( fig. 26 ) . 
Discussion It is evident that many marked and striking differences exist between lungs when an inter-species comparison is made . 
The significance of these differences has not been studied nor has the existence of corresponding physiologic differences been determined . 
However , the dynamics of airflow , from morphologic considerations alone , may conceivably be different in the monkey than in the horse . 
The volume and , perhaps , even the characteristics of bronchial arterial blood flow might be different in the dog than in the horse . 
Also , interlobular air drifts may be all but nonexistent in the cow ; ; probably occur in the horse much as in the human being ; ; and , in contrast , are present to a relatively immense degree on a segmental basis in the dog where lobules are absent ( Van Allen and Lindskog , '31 ) . 
A reason for such wide variation in the pulmonary morphology is entirely lacking at present . 
Within certain wide limits anatomy dictates function and , if one is permitted to speculate , potential pathology should be included in this statement as well . 
For example , the marked susceptibility of the monkey to respiratory infection might be related to its delicate , long alveolar ducts and short , large bronchioles situated within a parenchyma entirely lacking in protective supportive tissue barriers such as those found in types 1 , and 3 . 
One might also wonder if monkeys are capable of developing bronchiolitis as we know it in man or the horse . 
In addition , it would be difficult to imagine chronic generalized emphysema occurring in a cow , considering its marked lobular development but , conversely , not difficult to imagine this occurring in the horse or the dog . 
Anatomically , the horse lung appears to be remarkably like that of man , insofar as this can be ascertained from comparison of our findings in the horse with those of others ( Birnbaum , '54 ) in the human being . 
The only area in which one might find major disagreement in this matter is in regard to the alveolar distribution of the bronchial arteries . 
As early as 1858 , Le Fort claimed an alveolar distribution of the bronchial arteries in human beings . 
In 1951 , this was reaffirmed by Cudkowicz . 
The opposition to this point of view has its staunchest support in the work of Miller ( '50 ) . 
Apparently , however , Miller has relied heavily on the anatomy in dogs and cats , and he has been criticized for using pathologic human material in his normal study ( Loosli , '38 ) . 
Although Miller noted in 1907 that a difference in the pleural blood supply existed between animals , nowhere in his published works is it found that he did a comparative study of the intrapulmonary features of various mammalian lungs other than in the dog and cat ( Miller , '13 ; ; '25 ) . 
The meaning of this variation in distribution of the bronchial artery as found in the horse is not clear . 
However , this artery is known to be a nutrient vessel with a distribution primarily to the proximal airways and supportive tissues of the lung . 
The alveoli and respiratory bronchioles are primarily diffusing tissues . 
Theoretically , they are capable of extracting their required oxygen either from the surrounding air ( Ghoreyeb and Karsner , '13 ) or from pulmonary arterial blood ( Comroe , '58 ) . 
Therefore , an explanation of this alveolar bronchial artery supply might be the nutritive requirement of an increased amount of supportive tissue , not primarily diffusing in nature , in the region of the alveolus . 
If this be true , the possibility exists that an occlusive lesion of the bronchial arteries might cause widespread degeneration of supportive tissue similar to that seen in generalized emphysema . 
One would not expect such an event to occur in animals possessing lungs of types 1 , or 2 . 
The presence of normally occurring bronchial artery-pulmonary artery anastomoses was first noted in 1721 by Ruysch , and thereafter by many others . 
Nakamura ( '58 ) , Verloop ( '48 ) , Marchand , Gilroy and Watson ( '50 ) , Von Hayek ( '53 ) , and Tobin ( '52 ) have all claimed their normal but relatively nonfunctional existence in the human being . 
Miller ( '50 ) is the principal antagonist of this viewpoint . 
In criticism of the latter's views , his conclusions were based upon dog lung injection studies in which all of the vascular channels were first filled with a solution under pressure and then were injected with various sized colored particles designed to stop at the arteriolar level . 
As early as 1913 Ghoreyeb and Karsner demonstrated with perfusion studies in dogs that bronchial artery flow would remain constant at a certain low level when pressure was maintained in the pulmonary artery and vein , but that increases in bronchial artery flow would occur in response to a relative drop in pulmonary artery pressure . 
Berry , Brailsford and Daly in 1931 and Nakamura in 1958 reaffirmed this . 
Our own studies in which bronchial artery-pulmonary artery anastomoses were demonstrated , were accomplished by injecting the bronchial artery first with no pressure on the pulmonary artery or vein , and then by injecting the pulmonary artery and vein afterwards . 
It is distinctly possible , therefore , that simultaneous pressures in all three vessels would have rendered the shunts inoperable and hence , uninjectable . 
This viewpoint is further supported by Verloop's ( '48 ) demonstration of thickened bronchial artery and arteriolar muscular coats which are capable of acting as valves . 
In other words , the anastomoses between the bronchial artery and pulmonary artery should be considered as functional or demand shunts . 
In addition , little work has been done on a comparative basis in regard to the normal existence of bronchial artery-pulmonary artery anastomoses . 
Verloop ( '48 ; ; '49 ) found these shunts in the human being but was unable to find them in rats . 
Ellis , Grindlay and Edwards ( '52 ) also were unable to find them in rats . 
Nakamura ( '58 ) was unable to demonstrate their existence , either by anatomic or physiologic methods , in dogs . 
The possibility that the absence or presence of these shunts is species-dependent is therefore inferred . 
Certainly , the mere fact of failing to demonstrate them in one or another species does not conclusively deny their existence in that species . 
It is , however , highly suggestive and agrees well with our own findings in which we also failed to demonstrate normally occurring bronchial artery-pulmonary artery shunts in certain species , especially the dog . 
In conclusion , these findings suggest the need for a comparative physiology , pathology , and histology of mammalian lungs . 
In addition , a detailed interspecies survey of the incidence of generalized pulmonary emphysema in mammals would be interesting and pertinent . 
Also , for the present , great caution should be exercised in the choice of an experimental animal for pulmonary studies if they are to be applied to man . 
This is especially so if the dog , cat or monkey are to be used , in view of their marked anatomical differences from man . 
Finally , it is suggested that in many respects the horse lung may be anatomically more comparable to that of the human than any other presently known species . 
Summary The main subgross anatomical features of the lungs of various mammals are presented . 
A tabulation of these features permits the lungs to be grouped into three distinctive subgross types . 
Type 1 , is represented by the cow , sheep , and pig ; ; type 2 , , by the dog , cat , and monkey ; ; type 3 , , by the horse . 
Lobularity is extremely well developed in type 1 ; ; absent in type 2 ; ; imperfectly developed in type 3 . 
The pleura and interlobular septa are thick in types 1 and 3 . 
The pleura is extremely thin in type 2 and septa are absent . 
Arterial supply to the pleura in types 1 and 3 is provided by the bronchial artery , and in type 2 , by the pulmonary artery . 
In types 1 , 2 and 3 the bronchial artery terminates in a capillary bed shared in common with the pulmonary artery at the level of the distal bronchiole . 
In type 3 the bronchial artery also provides blood directly to the alveolar capillary bed . 
True terminal bronchioles comprise the most frequent form taken by the distal airways in types 1 and 3 , although small numbers of poorly developed respiratory bronchioles are present . 
Well developed respiratory bronchioles , on the other hand , appear to be the only form taken by the distal airways in type 2 . 
In type 1 the pulmonary vein closely follows the course of the bronchus and the pulmonary artery from the periphery to the hilum . 
This may be due to the heavy interlobular connective tissue barriers present . 
In type 3 , this general relationship is maintained peripherally but not centrally where the pulmonary vein follows a more independent path to the hilum as is the case throughout the lung in type 2 . 
Some of the features of the top portions of Figure 1 and Figure 2 were mentioned in discussing Table 1 . 
First , the Onset Profile spreads across approximately 12 years for boys and 10 years for girls . 
In contrast , 20 of the 21 lines in the Completion Profile ( excluding center 5 for boys and 4 for girls ) are bunched and extend over a much shorter period , approximately 30 months for boys and 40 months for girls . 
The Maturity Chart for each sex demonstrates clearly that Onset is a phenomenon of infancy and early childhood whereas Completion is a phenomenon of the later portion of adolescence . 
Second , for both sexes , the 21 transverse lines in the Onset Profile vary more in individual spread than those in the Completion Profile . 
Although the standard deviation values on which spread of the lines is based are relatively larger for those centers which begin to ossify early ( Table 1 ) , there are considerable differences in this value between centers having the closely timed Onsets . 
Third , the process of calcification is seen to begin later and to continue much longer for these boys than for the girls , a fact which confirms data for other groups of children . 
The Onset Profile and Completion Profile are constructed to serve as norms for children . 
It is convenient to classify a child's onset ages and completion ages as `` advanced '' , `` moderate '' ( modal ) , or `` delayed '' according to whether the child's age equivalent `` dots '' appeared to the left of , upon , or to the right of the appropriate short transverse line . 
When a dot appears close to the end of the transverse line , the `` moderate '' rating may be further classified according to the position of the dot with respect to the vertical marking denoting the mean age . 
Such classifications may be called `` somewhat advanced '' or `` somewhat delayed '' , as the case may be , reserving `` moderate '' for dots upon or close to the mean . 
In the lower portion of each Chart , the Skeletal Age ( Hand ) of boy 34 and girl 2 may be similarly classified . 
There the middle one of the three curves denotes `` mean Skeletal Age '' for the Maturity Series boys and girls . 
The upper curve denotes the mean plus one standard deviation , and the lower curve represents the mean minus one standard deviation . 
Thus , a child's Skeletal Age `` dots '' may be classified as `` advanced '' when they appear above the middle curve , `` moderate '' when they appear immediately above or below the middle curve , and `` delayed '' when they appear below the lower curve . 
To summarize the purpose of the Skeletal Maturity Chart : each contains two kinds of skeletal maturity norms which show two quite different methods of depicting developmental level of growth centers . 
First , the upper portion requires series of films for every child , consisting of those from Hand , Elbow , Shoulder , Knee , and Foot . 
The lower portion necessitates only films of Hand . 
Second , the upper portion permits comparison of maturity levels of an equal number of growth centers from the long , short , and round bones of the five regions . 
The lower portion permits comparison of maturity levels of short and round bones predominantly , since only two long bones are included in Hand and Wrist as a region . 
Third , the upper portion deals with only two indicators of developmental level , Onset and Completion . 
The lower portion utilizes the full complement of intermediate maturity indicators of each Hand center as well as their Onset and Completion . 
Fourth , the two indicators are for the most part widely separated chronologically , with the extensive age gap occurring during childhood for all but one growth center . 
The lower portion provides a rating at any stage between infancy and adulthood . 
Onsets , Completions , and Skeletal Ages ( Hand ) of boy 34 and girl 2 may be directly compared and classified , using only those Skeletal Ages which appear immediately below the Onset Profile and the Completion Profile . 
It may be assumed that differences in ratings due to selection of growth centers from specific regions of the body will be small , according to existing tables of onset age and completion age for centers throughout the body . 
Accordingly , maturity level ratings by means of the upper portion and lower portion of the Chart , respectively , should be somewhat similar since Skeletal Age assessments are dependent upon Onsets during infancy and upon Completions during adolescence . 
It is clear that there are some differences in the ratings , but there is substantial agreement . 
Since a Skeletal Age rating can be made at any age during growth , from Elbow , Shoulder , Knee , or Foot as well as Hand , it seems to be the method of choice when one wishes to study most aspects of skeletal developmental progress during childhood . 
As stated earlier in the paper , Onsets and Completions -- particularly the former -- provide a different tool or indicator of expectancy in osseous development , each within a limited age period . 
Such an indicator , or indicators , are needed as means of recognizing specific periods of delay in skeletal developmental progress . 
It was stated earlier that one purpose of this study was to extend the analysis of variability of Onset and Completion in each of the 21 growth centers somewhat beyond that provided by the data in Tables 1 and 2 . 
As one approach to doing this , Figures 3 and 4 have be constructed from the mean ages and the individual onset and completion ages for boy 34 and girl 2 . 
The differences between onset age and completion age with respect to the corresponding mean age have been brought into juxtaposition by means of a series of arrows . 
The data for boy 34 appear in Figure 3 , and for girl 2 in Figure 4 . 
The numbering system used in Tables 1 and 2 and Figures 1 and 2 was continued for the 21 growth centers . 
The `` dot '' on one end of each arrow indicates extent of difference in months between the child's onset age and the corresponding mean age for the growth center . 
The `` tip '' of the arrow represents extent of difference between the child's completion age and the corresponding mean age for the growth center . 
Thus , the alignment of the `` dots '' and `` tips '' , respectively , indicate individual variability of the 21 growth centers of each child with respect to the mean values for these boys and girls . 
The direction in which the arrow points shows how the maturity level of the growth center was changed at Completion from the level at Onset . 
When the `` dot '' and `` tip '' coincide , the classification used in this paper is `` Same schedule '' . 
The length of the arrow indicates amount of slowing or acceleration at Completion over that at Onset , and the difference in months can be read roughly by referring the arrow to the age scale along the base of each figure , or more precisely by referring to the original data in the appropriate tables . 
The difference between the sequence of Onset of ossification for the sexes governs the numbering sequence in Figures 3 and 4 . 
This difference is readily clarified by referring to Table 1 . 
For example , arrow 17 in Figure 3 portrays the proximal radial epiphysis for boy 34 , whereas the same epiphysis for girl 2 is portrayed by arrow 18 in Figure 4 . 
For the boy , this epiphysis was markedly delayed at Onset but near the mean at Completion . 
Thus , the Span of its ossification was shortened and the center's ability to `` catch up '' in ossification is demonstrated . 
In contrast , for the girl the epiphysis was slightly advanced at Onset and delayed at Completion . 
Obviously , the slowing for her may have occurred at any point between Onset and Completion . 
The Skeletal Age curve in the lower portion of Figure 2 shows that slowing may have occurred for her during the prepubescent period . 
Length of the shaft of these arrows may be evaluated according to the standard deviation values for each center in Table 1 . 
We have attempted to simplify the extensive task of analyzing onset ages and completion ages of each child -- more than 1700 values for the entire group -- by constructing figures for each of the 21 centers so that the data for all 34 boys and 34 of the girls will appear together for each growth center . 
Figures 5 and 6 are examples of our method of analyzing the results for each growth center . 
Forty other figures similar to 5 and 6 and the original data used in the construction of all figures and tables in this monograph have been included in the Appendix . 
The principles used in making each arrow for Figures 3 and 4 were applied to the construction of Figures 5 and 6 as well as all figures in the Appendix . 
One growth center in a short bone -- distal phalanx of the second finger -- was chosen as an example for discussion here , primarily because epiphyseal-diaphyseal fusion , the maturity indicator for Completion in long and short bones , occurs in this center for girls near the menarche and for boys near their comparable pubescent stage . 
Its Completion thus becomes one of the convenient maturity indicators to include in studies of growth , dietary patterns , and health during adolescence . 
The following summary , based on Figures 5 and 6 , is an example of one way of interpreting the 42 figures constructed from onset ages and completion ages of individual children with respect to the appropriate mean age for each growth center . 
At the top of Figure 5 , for example , the Onset range and Completion range lines for the chosen growth center have been drawn for girls according to their mean and standard deviation values in Table 1 . 
The 34 arrows , denoting onset age plus completion age deviations , have been arrayed in an Onset sequence which begins with girl 18 who had the earliest Onset of the 34 girls . 
The growth center depicted here , in the distal phalanx of the second finger , is listed as the fifth of those in the seven short bones . 
The mean onset age was 25.3 months ( Table 1 ) , and the average Span of the osseous stage was 133 months . 
The correlation ( Table 2 ) between onset age and completion age was -.50 , and that between onset age and Span was -.10 . 
With due consideration for the limits of precision in assessing , expected rate of change in ossification of girls age 2 years , and the known variations in rate of ossification of these children as described in our preceding paper in the Supplement , each arrow with a `` shaft length '' of four months or less was selected as indicating `` same schedule '' at Onset and Completion , for this particular epiphysis . 
Accordingly , girls 31 , 29 , 33 , 21 , 26 , 13 , 3 , 4 , 14 , 32 , 24 , 25 , 34 , 23 , 6 , 15 , 22 , and 16 may be said to have the `` same schedule '' at Onset and Completion . 
It seems clear , from the counter-balanced shape of the series of arrows in Figure 5 that there was about an equal number of early and late Onsets and Completions for the 34 girls . 
Accordingly , if epiphyseal-diaphyseal fusion occurs in this phalanx near menarche , early and late menarches might have been forecast rather precisely at the time of Onset of ossification for the 18 girls with `` same schedule '' . 
As an example of the interpretation of an arrow in the figure which exceeds four months in shaft length in conjunction with its position in the figure : girl 2 had a delayed Onset and further delayed Completion . 
It is of interest that her menarche was somewhat later than the average for the girls in this group . 
A similar analysis of Figure 6 for the 34 boys would necessitate quite a different conclusion about the predictive value of onset age in forecasting their attainment of the pubescent stage . 
Boys 32 , 23 , 31 , 17 , 30 , 19 , and 24 had `` same schedule '' at Onset and Completion ; ; thus early forecasting of the pubescent stage would appear possible for only seven boys . 
Boy 34 , like girl 2 , did not have `` same schedule '' ; ; his arrow crosses the line denoting the mean . 
The `` dot '' on his arrow indicates early Onset and the `` tip '' indicates relatively later Completion . 
After the 42 figures had been drawn like Figures 5 and 6 , classifications of the onset ages and completion ages were summarized from them . 
Interestingly enough , the effect of the digitalis glycosides is inhibited by a high concentration of potassium in the incubation medium and is enhanced by the absence of potassium ( Wolff , 1960 ) . 
B . 
Organification of iodine The precise mechanism for organification of iodine in the thyroid is not as yet completely understood . 
However , the formation of organically bound iodine , mainly mono-iodotyrosine , can be accomplished in cell-free systems . 
In the absence of additions to the homogenate , the product formed is an iodinated particulate protein ( Fawcett and Kirkwood , 1953 ; ; Taurog , Potter and Chaikoff , 1955 ; ; Taurog , Potter , Tong , and Chaikoff , 1956 ; ; Serif and Kirkwood , 1958 ; ; De Groot and Carvalho , 1960 ) . 
This iodoprotein does not appear to be the same as what is normally present in the thyroid , and there is no evidence so far that thyroglobulin can be iodinated in vitro by cell-free systems . 
In addition , the iodoamino acid formed in largest quantity in the intact thyroid is di-iodotyrosine . 
If tyrosine and a system generating hydrogen peroxide are added to a cell-free homogenate of the thyroid , large quantities of free mono-iodotyrosine can be formed ( Alexander , 1959 ) . 
It is not clear whether this system bears any resemblance to the in vivo iodinating mechanism , and a system generating peroxide has not been identified in thyroid tissue . 
On chemical grounds it seems most likely that iodide is first converted to Af and then to Af as the active iodinating species . 
In the thyroid gland it appears that proteins ( chiefly thyroglobulin ) are iodinated and that free tyrosine and thyronine are not iodinated . 
Iodination of tyrosine , however , is not enough for the synthesis of hormone . 
The mono- and di-iodotyrosine must be coupled to form tri-iodothyronine and thyroxine . 
The mechanism of this coupling has been studied in some detail with non-enzymatic systems in vitro and can be simulated by certain di-iodotyrosine analogues ( Pitt-Rivers and James , 1958 ) . 
There is so far no evidence to indicate conclusively that this coupling is under enzymatic control . 
The chemical nature of the iodocompounds is discussed below ( pp. 76 et seq. ) . 
C . 
Thyroglobulin synthesis Little is known of the synthetic mechanisms for formation of thyroglobulin . 
Its synthesis has not been demonstrated in cell-free systems , nor has its synthesis by systems with intact thyroid cells in vitro been unequivocally proven . 
There is some reason to think that thyroglobulin synthesis may proceed independently of iodination , for in certain transplantable tumours of the rat thyroid containing essentially no iodinated thyroglobulin , a protein that appears to be thyroglobulin has been observed in ultracentrifuge experiments ( Wolff , Robbins and Rall , 1959 ) . 
Similar findings have been noted in a patient with congenital absence of the organification enzymes , whose thyroid tissue could only concentrate iodide . 
In addition , depending on availability of dietary iodine , thyroglobulin may contain varying quantities of iodine . 
D . 
Secretion Since the circulating thyroid hormones are the amino acids thyroxine and tri-iodothyronine ( cf. Section C ) , it is clear that some mechanism must exist in the thyroid gland for their release from proteins before secretion . 
The presence of several proteases and peptidases has been demonstrated in the thyroid . 
One of the proteases has pH optimum of about 3.7 and another of about 5.7 ( McQuillan , Stanley and Trikojus , 1954 ; ; Alpers , Robbins and Rall , 1955 ) . 
The finding that the concentration of one of these proteases is increased in thyroid glands from TSH-treated animals suggests that this protease may be active in vivo . 
There is no conclusive evidence yet that either of the proteases has been prepared in highly purified form nor is their specificity known . 
A study of their activity on thyroglobulin has shown that thyroxine is not preferentially released and that the degradation proceeds stepwise with the formation of macromolecular intermediates ( Alpers , Petermann and Rall , 1956 ) . 
Besides proteolytic enzymes the thyroid possesses de-iodinating enzymes . 
A microsomal de-iodinase with a pH optimum of around 8 , and requiring reduced triphosphopyridine nucleotide for activity , has been identified in the thyroid ( Stanbury , 1957 ) . 
This de-iodinating enzyme is effective against mono- and di-iodotyrosine , but does not de-iodinate thyroxine or tri-iodothyronine . 
It is assumed that the iodine released from the iodotyrosines remains in the iodide pool of the thyroid , where it is oxidised and re-incorporated into thyroglobulin . 
The thyroxine and tri-iodothyronine released by proteolysis and so escaping de-iodination presumably diffuse into the blood stream . 
It has been shown that thyroglobulin binds thyroxine , but the binding does not appear to be particularly strong . 
It has been suggested that the plasma thyroxine-binding proteins , which have an extremely high affinity for thyroxine , compete with thyroglobulin for thyroxine ( Ingbar and Freinkel , 1957 ) . 
E . 
Antithyroid drugs Antithyroid drugs are of two general types . 
One type has a small univalent anion of the thiocyanate-perchlorate-fluoro type . 
This ion inhibits thyroid hormone synthesis by interfering with iodide concentration in the thyroid . 
It does not appear to affect the iodinating mechanism as such . 
The other group of antithyroid agents or drugs is typified by thiouracil . 
These drugs have no effect on the iodide concentrating mechanism , but they inhibit organification . 
The mechanism of action of these drugs has not been completely worked out , but certain of them appear to act by reducing the oxidised form of iodine before it can iodinate thyroglobulin ( Astwood , 1954 ) . 
On the other hand , there are a few antithyroid drugs of this same general type , such as resorcinol , possessing no reducing activity and possibly acting through formation of a complex with molecular iodine . 
Any of the antithyroid drugs , of either type , if given in large enough doses for a long period of time will cause goitre , owing to inhibition of thyroid hormone synthesis , with production of hypothyroidism . 
The anterior lobe of the pituitary then responds by an increased output of TSH , causing the thyroid to enlarge . 
The effect of drugs that act on the iodide-concentrating mechanism can be counteracted by addition of relatively large amounts of iodine to the diet . 
The antithyroid drugs of the thiouracil type , however , are not antagonised by such means . 
Besides those of the thiouracil and resorcinol types , certain antithyroid drugs have been found in naturally occurring foods . 
The most conclusively identified is L-5-vinyl-2-thio-oxazolidone , which was isolated from rutabaga ( Greer , 1950 ) . 
It is presumed to occur in other members of the Brassica family . 
There is some evidence that naturally occurring goitrogens may play a role in the development of goitre , particularly in Tasmania and Australia ( Clements and Wishart , 1956 ) . 
There it seems that the goitrogen ingested by dairy animals is itself inactive but is converted in the animal to an active goitrogen , which is then secreted in the milk . 
F . 
Dietary influences Besides the presence of goitrogens in the diet , the level of iodine itself in the diet plays a major role in governing the activity of the thyroid gland . 
In the experimental animal and in man gross deficiency in dietary iodine causes thyroid hyperplasia , hypertrophy and increased thyroid activity ( Money , Rall and Rawson , 1952 ; ; Stanbury , Brownell , Riggs , Perinetti , Itoiz , and Del Castillo , 1954 ) . 
In man the normal level of iodine in the diet and the level necessary to prevent development of goitre is about 100 **ymg per day . 
With lower levels , thyroid hypertrophy and increased thyroid blood-flow enable the thyroid to accumulate a larger proportion of the daily intake of iodine . 
Further , the gland is able to re-use a larger fraction of the thyroid hormone de-iodinated peripherally . 
In the presence of a low iodine intake , thyroglobulin labelled in vivo with Af is found to contain more mono-iodotyrosine than normal , the amounts of di-iodotyrosine and iodothyronines being correspondingly reduced . 
This appears to result from both a reduced amount of the iodine substrate and a more rapid secretion of newly iodinated thyroglobulin . 
If the deficiency persists long enough , it is reasonable to suppose that the Af label will reflect the Af distribution in the thyroglobulin . 
Similar results might be expected from the influence of drugs or pathological conditions that limit iodide trapping , or organification , or accelerate thyroglobulin proteolysis . 
B . 
The thyroid-stimulating hormone The name thyroid-stimulating hormone ( TSH ) has been given to a substance found in the anterior pituitary gland of all species of animal so tested for its presence . 
The hormone has also been called thyrotrophin or thyrotrophic hormone . 
At the present time we do not know by what biochemical mechanism TSH acts on the thyroid , but for bio-assay of the hormone there are a number of properties by which its activity may be estimated , including release of iodine from the thyroid , increase in thyroid weight , increase in mean height of the follicular cells and increase in the thyroidal uptake of Af . 
Here we shall restrict discussion to those methods that appear sufficiently sensitive and precise for determining the concentration of TSH in blood . 
Brown ( 1959 ) has reviewed generally the various methods of assaying TSH , and the reader is referred to her paper for further information on the subject . 
1 . 
Chemical constitution and physical properties of pituitary tsh As long ago as 1851 it was pointed out by Niepce ( 1851 ) that there is a connection between the pituitary and the thyroid . 
This connection was clarified by Smith and Smith ( 1922 ) , who showed that saline extracts of fresh bovine pituitary glands could re-activate the atrophied thyroids of hypophysectomised tadpoles . 
The first attempts to isolate TSH came a decade later , when Janssen and Loeser ( 1931 ) used trichloroacetic acid to separate the soluble TSH from insoluble impurities . 
After their work other investigators applied salt-fractionation techniques to the problem , as well as fractionation with organic solvents , such as acetone . 
Albert ( 1949 ) has concluded that the most active preparations of TSH made during this period , from 1931 to 1945 , were probably about 100 to 300 times as potent as the starting material . 
Much of this work has been reviewed by White ( 1944 ) and by Albert ( 1949 ) . 
Developments up to about 1957 have been discussed by Sonenberg ( 1958 ) . 
In the last few years , the application of chromatographic and other modern techniques to the problem of isolating TSH has led to further purification ( Bates and Condliffe , 1960 ; ; Pierce , Carsten and Wynston , 1960 ) . 
The most active preparations obtained by these two groups of investigators appear to be similar in potency , composition and physical properties . 
Two problems present themselves in considering any hormone in blood . 
First , is the circulating form of the hormone the same as that found in the gland where it is synthesised and stored ? 
Second , what is its concentration in normal circumstances and in what circumstances will this concentration depart from the normal level and in which direction ? 
It is therefore necessary to consider the properties of pituitary TSH if the fragmentary chemical information about blood TSH is to be discussed rationally . 
The importance of knowing in what chemical forms the hormone may exist is accentuated by the recent observation that there exists an abnormally long-acting TSH in blood drawn from many thyrotoxic patients ( Adams , 1958 ) . 
Whether this abnormal TSH differs chemically from pituitary TSH , or is , alternatively , normal TSH with its period of effectiveness modified by some other blood constituent , cannot be decided without chemical study of the activity in the blood of these patients and a comparison of the substance responsible for the blood activity with pituitary Aj . 
In evaluating data on the concentration of TSH in blood , one must examine critically the bio-assay methods used to obtain them . 
The introduction of the United States Pharmacopoeia reference standard in 1952 and the redefinition and equating of the USP and international units of thyroid-stimulating activity have made it possible to compare results published by different investigators since that time . 
We should like to re-emphasise the importance of stating results solely in terms of international units of TSH activity and of avoiding the re-introduction of biological units . 
For the most part , this discussion will be confined to results obtained since the introduction of the reference standard . 
A . 
Standard preparations and units of thyroid-stimulating activity The international unit ( u. ) , adopted to make possible the comparison of results from different laboratories ( Mussett and Perry , 1955 ) , has been defined as the amount of activity present in 13.5 mg of the International Standard Preparation . 
The international unit is equipotent with the USP unit adopted in 1952 , which was defined as the amount of activity present in 20 mg of the USP reference substance . 
Introduction Muscle weakness is now recognized as an uncommon though serious complication of steroid therapy , with most of the synthetic adrenal corticosteroids in clinical use . 
Although biopsies have shown structural changes in some of the reported cases of steroid-induced weakness , this case provides the only example known to us in which necropsy afforded the opportunity for extensive study of multiple muscle groups . 
The case described in this paper is that of an older man who developed disabling muscular weakness while receiving a variety of steroids for a refractory anemia . 
Report of case This patient was a 65-year-old white male accountant who entered the New York Hospital for his fourth and terminal admission on June 26 , 1959 , because of disabling weakness and general debility . 
In 1953 the patient developed an unexplained anemia for which 15 blood transfusions were given over a period of 4 years . 
Splenomegaly was first noted in 1956 , and a sternal marrow biopsy at that time showed `` scattered foci of fibrosis '' suggestive of myelofibrosis . 
No additional transfusions were necessary after the institution of prednisone in July , 1957 , in an initial dose of 40 mg. daily with gradual tapering to 10 mg. daily . 
This medication was continued until February , 1958 . 
In February , 1958 , the patient suffered a myocardial infarction complicated by pulmonary edema . 
Additional findings at this time included cardiomegaly , peripheral arteriosclerosis obliterans , and cholelithiasis . 
The hemoglobin was 11.6 gm. . 
Therapy included digitalization and anticoagulation . 
Later , chlorothiazide and salt restriction became necessary to control the edema of chronic congestive failure . 
Because of increasing anemia , triamcinolone , 8 mg. daily , was started on Feb. 23 , 1958 , and was continued until July , 1958 . 
In September , 1958 , the patient developed generalized weakness and fatigue which was concurrent with exacerbation of his anemia ; ; the hemoglobin was 10.6 gm. . 
In an attempt to reverse the downhill trend by stimulating the bone marrow and controlling any hemolytic component , triamcinolone , 16 mg. daily , was begun on Sept. 26 , 1958 , and continued until Feb. 18 , 1959 . 
At first the patient felt stronger , and the hemoglobin rose to 13.8 gm. , but on Oct. 20 , 1958 , he complained of `` caving in '' in his knees . 
By Nov. 8 , 1958 , weakness , specifically involving the pelvic and thigh musculature , was pronounced , and a common complaint was `` difficulty in stepping up on to curbs '' . 
Prednisone , 30 mg. daily , was substituted for triamcinolone from Nov. 22 until Dec. 1 , 1958 , without any improvement in the weakness . 
Serum potassium at this time was 3.8 mEq. per liter , and the hemoglobin was 13.9 gm. By Dec. 1 , 1958 , the weakness in the pelvic and quadriceps muscle groups was appreciably worse , and it became difficult for the patient to rise unaided from a sitting or reclining position . 
Triamcinolone , 16 mg. daily , was resumed and maintained until Feb. 18 , 1959 . 
Chlorothiazide was omitted for a 2-week period , but there was no change in the muscle weakness . 
At this time a detailed neuromuscular examination revealed diffuse muscle atrophy that was moderate in the hands and feet , but marked in the shoulders , hips , and pelvic girdle , with hypoactive deep-tendon reflexes . 
No fasciculations or sensory defects were found . 
Electromyography revealed no evidence of lower motor neuron disease . 
Thyroid function tests yielded normal results . 
The protein-bound iodine was 6.6 mg. , and the radioactive iodine uptake over the thyroid gland was 46% in 24 hours , with a conversion ratio of 12% . 
A Schilling test demonstrated normal absorption of vitamin Af . 
In February , 1959 , during the second admission to The New York Hospital , a biopsy specimen of the left gastrocnemius showed striking increase in the sarcolemmal sheath nuclei and shrunken muscle fibers in several sections . 
Serial serum potassium levels remained normal ; ; the serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase was 10 units per ml. per min. . 
The clinical impression at this time was either muscular dystrophy or polymyositis . 
On Feb. 12 , 1959 , purified corticotropin ( ACTH Gel ) , 20 units daily intramuscularly , was started but had to be discontinued 3 weeks later because of excessive fluid retention . 
From March 3 to May 1 , 1949 , the patient was maintained on dexamethasone , 3 to 6 mg. daily . 
In May 1959 , prednisone , 30 mg. daily , replaced the dexamethasone . 
Muscle weakness did not improve , and the patient needed first a cane , then crutches . 
In spite of normal thyroid function tests , a trial of propylthiouracil , 400 mg. daily for one week , was given but served only to intensify muscle weakness . 
Repeated attempts to withdraw steroids entirely were unsuccessful because increased muscle weakness resulted , as well as fever , malaise , anorexia , anxiety , and an exacerbation of the anemia . 
These reactions were interpreted as being manifestations of hypoadrenocorticism . 
Severe back pain in June , 1959 , prompted a third hospital admission . 
Extensive osteoporosis with partial collapse of D8 was found . 
A high-protein diet , calcium lactate supplements , and norethandrolone failed to change the skeletal complaint or the severe muscle weakness . 
The terminal hospital admission on June 27 , 1959 , was necessitated by continued weakness and debility complicated by urinary retention and painful thrombosed hemorrhoids . 
X-ray films of the vertebral column showed progression of the demineralization . 
On July 4 , 1959 , the patient developed marked abdominal pain and distension , went into shock , and died . 
Findings at necropsy The body was that of a well-developed , somewhat debilitated white man weighing 108 lb. . 
There were bilateral pterygia and arcus senilis , and the mouth was edentulous . 
The heart weighed 510 gm. , and at the outflow tracts the left and right ventricles measured 19 and 3 mm. , respectively . 
The coronary arteries were sclerotic and diffusely narrowed throughout their courses , and the right coronary artery was virtually occluded by a yellow atheromatous plaque 1.5 cm. distal to its origin . 
The myocardium of the posterior base of the left ventricle was replaced by gray scar tissue over a 7.5 cm. area . 
The valves were normal except for thin yellow plaques on the inferior surface of the mitral leaflets . 
Microscopically , sections from the posterior base of the left ventricle of the heart showed several large areas of replacement of muscle by fibrous tissue . 
In addition , other sections contained focal areas of recent myocardial necrosis that were infiltrated with neutrophils . 
Many of the myocardial fibers were hypertrophied and had large , irregular , basophilic nuclei . 
The intima of the larger coronary arteries was thickened by fibrous tissue containing fusiform clefts and mononuclear cells . 
The intimal surface of the aorta was covered with confluent , yellow-brown , hard , friable plaques along its entire course , and there was a marked narrowing of the orifices of the large major visceral arteries . 
In particular , the orifices of the right renal and celiac arteries were virtually occluded , and both calcified common iliac arteries were completely occluded . 
The lungs weighed together 950 gm. . 
On the surfaces of both lungs there were emphysematous blebs measuring up to 3 cm. in diameter . 
The parenchyma was slightly hyperemic in the apex of the left lung , and there were several firm , gray , fibrocalcific nodules measuring as large as 3 mm. . 
Microscopically , there was emphysema , fibrosis , and vascular congestion . 
Macrophages laden with brown pigment were seen in some of the alveoli , and the intima of some of the small arteries was thickened by fibrous tissue . 
The firm red spleen weighed 410 gm. , and its surface was mottled by discrete , small patches of white material . 
The endothelial cells lining the sinusoids were prominent , and many contained large quantities of hemosiderin . 
Some of the sinusoids contained large numbers of nucleated red cells , and cells of the granulocytic series were found in small numbers . 
There were slight fibrosis and marked arteriolosclerosis . 
The liver weighed 2,090 gm. , was brown in color , and the cut surface was mottled by irregular pale areas . 
Microscopically , there was hyperemia of the central veins , and there was some atrophy of adjacent parenchyma . 
Some liver cord cells contained vacuolated cytoplasm , while others had small amounts of brown hemosiderin pigment . 
The gallbladder contained about 40 cc. of green-brown bile and 3 smooth , dark-green calculi measuring up to 1 cm. in diameter . 
The mucosa of the stomach was atrophic and irregularly blackened over a 14 cm. area . 
The small and large intestines were filled with gas , and the jejunum was dilated to about 2 times its normal circumference . 
The small intestine and colon contained approximately 300 cc. of foul-smelling , sanguineous material , and the mucosa throughout was hyperemic and mottled green-brown . 
A careful search failed to show occlusion of any of the mesenteric vessels . 
Microscopically , the mucosa of the stomach showed extensive cytolysis and contained large numbers of Gram-negative bacterial rods . 
The submucosa was focally infiltrated with neutrophils . 
The mucosa of the jejunum and ileum showed similar changes , and in some areas the submucosa was edematous and contained considerable numbers of neutrophils . 
Some of the small vessels were filled with fibrin thrombi , and there was extensive interstitial hemorrhage . 
A section of the colon revealed intense hyperemia and extensive focal ulcerations of the mucosa , associated with much fibrin and many neutrophils . 
Cultures taken from the jejunum yielded Monilia albicans , Pseudomonas pyocanea , Aerobacter aerogenes , and Streptococcus anhemolyticus . 
The kidneys were pale and weighed right , 110 gm. , and left , 230 gm. . 
The surfaces were coarsely and finely granular and punctuated by clear , fluid-filled cysts measuring up to 3 cm. in diameter . 
On the surface of the right kidney there were also 2 yellow , firm , friable raised areas measuring up to 2 cm. in diameter . 
Microscopically , both kidneys showed many small cortical scars in which there was glomerular and interstitial fibrosis , tubular atrophy , and an infiltration of lymphocytes and plasma cells . 
Occasional tubules contained hyaline casts admixed with neutrophils . 
Throughout , there were marked arteriolosclerosis and hyalinization of afferent glomerular arterioles . 
These changes were more marked in the atrophic right kidney than in the left . 
In addition , there were 2 small papillary adenomas in the right kidney . 
The bone of the vertebral bodies , ribs , and sternum was soft and was easily compressed . 
The marrow of the vertebral bodies was pale and showed areas of fatty replacement . 
Microscopically , there were many areas of hypercellularity alternating with areas of hypocellularity . 
The cells of the erythroid , myeloid , and megakaryocytic series were normal except for their numbers . 
There was no evidence of fibrosis . 
The muscles of the extremities , chest wall , neck , and abdominal wall were soft , pale , and atrophic . 
Microscopic studies of the gastrocnemius , pectoralis major , transversus abdominis , biceps brachii , and diaphragm showed atrophy as well as varying degrees of injury ranging from swelling and vacuolization to focal necrosis of the muscle fibers . 
These changes were most marked in the gastrocnemius and biceps and less evident in the pectoralis , diaphragm , and transversus . 
In the gastrocnemius and biceps there were many swollen and homogeneous necrotic fibers such as that shown in Figure 2 . 
Such swollen fibers were deeply eosinophilic , contained a few pyknotic nuclei , and showed loss of cross-striations , obliteration of myofibrils , and prominent vacuolization . 
The necrosis often involved only a portion of the length of a given fiber , and usually the immediately adjacent fibers were normal . 
As shown in Figure 3 , the protoplasm of other fibers was pale , granular , or flocculated and invaded by phagocytes . 
Inflammatory cells were strikingly absent . 
In association with these changes in the fibers , there were striking alterations in the muscle nuclei . 
These were increased both in number and in size , contained prominent nucleoli , and were distributed throughout the fiber ( Figs. 2 - 5 ) . 
In contrast to the nuclear changes described above , another change in muscle nuclei was seen , usually occurring in fibers that were somewhat smaller than normal but that showed distinct cross-striations and myofibrillae . 
The nuclei of these fibers , as is shown in Figures 3 and 4 , showed remarkable proliferation and were closely approximated , forming a chainlike structure at either the center or the periphery of the fiber . 
Individual nuclei were usually oval to round , though occasionally elongated , and frequently small and somewhat pyknotic . 
At times , clumps of 10 to 15 closely-packed nuclei were also observed . 
Occasionally there were small basophilic fibers that were devoid of myofibrillae and contained many vesicular nuclei with prominent nucleoli ( Fig. 5 ) . 
These were thought to represent regenerating fibers . 
Trichrome stains failed to show fibrosis in the involved muscles . 
In all of the sections examined , the arterioles and small arteries were essentially normal . 
Purification of the conjugates In attempting to improve specificity of staining , the fluorescein-labeled antisera used in both direct and indirect methods were treated in one of several ways : ( 1 ) They were passed through Dowex-2-chloride twice and treated with acetone insoluble powders ( Coons , 1958 ) prepared from mouse liver or from healthy sweet clover stems or crown gall tissue produced by Agrobacterium tumefaciens ( E. F. Smith & Townsend ) on sweet clover stems . 
( 2 ) The conjugates as well as the intermediate sera were absorbed for 30 minutes with 20 - 50 mg of proteins extracted from healthy sweet clover stems . 
The proteins were extracted with 3 volumes of Af in Af to give a nearly neutral extract and precipitated by 80% saturation with Af . 
The precipitate was washed twice with an 80% saturated solution of Af , dissolved in a small quantity of 0.1 M neutral phosphate buffer , dialyzed against cold distilled water till free from ammonium ions , and lyophilized using liquid nitrogen . 
( 3 ) In other experiments the indirect conjugate was treated with 3 volumes of ethyl acetate as recommended by Dineen and Ade ( 1957 ) . 
( 4 ) The conjugates were passed through a diethylaminoethyl ( DEAE ) cellulose column equilibrated with neutral phosphate buffer ( PBS ) containing Af potassium phosphate and Af . 
Preparation of frozen sections The technique of cutting sections was essentially the same as that described by Coons et al ( 1951 ) . 
Root and stem tumors from sweet clover plants infected with WTV were quick-frozen in liquid nitrogen , embedded in ice , and cut at 3 - 6 **ym in a cryostat maintained at -16-degrees to -20-degrees . 
The sections were mounted on cold slides smeared with Haupts' adhesive ( Johansen , 1940 ) in earlier experiments , and in later experiments with a different mixture of the same components reported by Schramm and Rottger ( 1959 ) . 
The latter adhesive was found to be much more satisfactory . 
The sections were then thawed by placing a finger under the slide and dried under a fan for 30 minutes ; ; until used they were stored for as long as 2 weeks . 
Staining technique indirect method . 
The sections were fixed in acetone for 15 minutes and dried at 37-degrees for 30 minutes . 
Some of them were then covered with a drop of Af in a moist chamber at 24-degrees for 30 - 40 minutes . 
As controls other sections were similarly covered with Aj . 
Sections were then washed with PBS for 15 - 30 minutes . 
After blotting out most of the saline around the sections , a drop of Af was layered over each of the sections , allowed to react for 30 minutes , and then washed with PBS for 15 - 30 minutes . 
After blotting out most of the liquid around the sections , the latter were mounted in buffered glycerine ( 7 parts glycerine to 3 parts of PBS ) . 
Direct method . 
After drying the sections under the fan , fixing in acetone , and drying at 37-degrees as in the indirect method , the sections were treated with conjugated Af or Af ( undiluted unless mentioned otherwise ) for 5 - 30 minutes . 
As controls , other sections were similarly treated with Af or conjugated antiserum to the New York strain of potato yellow-dwarf virus ( Wolcyrz and Black , 1956 ) . 
The sections were then washed with PBS for 15 - 30 minutes and mounted in buffered glycerine . 
Fluorescence microscopy Stained or unstained sections were examined under dark field illumination in a Zeiss fluorescence microscope equipped with a mercury vapor lamp ( Osram HBO 200 ) . 
The light beam from the lamp was filtered through a half-standard thickness Corning 1840 filter . 
In the eyepiece a Wratten 2 B filter was used to filter off residual ultra-violet light . 
A red filter , Zeiss barrier filter with the code ( Schott ) designation BG 23 , was also used in the ocular lens assembly as it improved the contrast between specific and nonspecific fluorescence . 
Results specificity of staining indirect method . 
In the first few experiments Af was passed through Dowex-2-chloride twice and absorbed twice with 50 - 100 mg sweet clover tissue powder . 
The intermediate sera were also similarly absorbed with tissue powder . 
Sections of sweet clover stem and root tumors were treated with 1 : 10 solution of Af for 30 minutes , washed in buffered saline for 15 minutes , stained with Af for 30 minutes , and washed for 15 minutes in Aj . 
Such sections showed bright yellow-green specific fluorescence in the cells of the pseudophloem tissue ( Lee and Black , 1955 ) . 
This specific fluorescence was readily distinguished from the light green nonspecific fluorescence in consecutive sections stained with 1 : 10 dilution of NS and Af or with Af alone . 
Unstained sections mounted in buffered glycerine or sections treated only with NS or Af did not show such green fluorescence . 
Sections of crown gall tissue similarly stained with either Af and Af or NS and Af also showed only the light green nonspecific fluorescence . 
However , the nonspecific staining by the Af in tumor sections was considered bright enough to be confused with the staining of small amounts of WTV antigen . 
Two absorptions of Af with ethyl acetate or two absorptions of Af ( which had been passed through Dowex-2-chloride ) , NS and Af with crown gall tissue powder , or mouse liver powder did not further improve the specificity of staining . 
Treatment of all the sera with sweet clover proteins greatly reduced nonspecific fluorescence , especially when the treated conjugate was diluted to 1 : 2 with 0.85% saline . 
In all the above procedures , when the intermediate sera were diluted to 1 : 10 or 1 : 100 with 0.85% saline , the specific and nonspecific fluorescence were not appreciably reduced , whereas , a dilution of the intermediate sera to 1 : 500 or diluting the Af to 1 : 5 greatly reduced specific fluorescence . 
Rinsing the sections with PBS before layering the intermediate sera did not improve the staining reaction . 
In addition to other treatments , treating the sections with normal sheep serum for half an hour before layering Af did not reduce nonspecific staining . 
The only treatment by which nonspecific staining could be satisfactorily removed was by passing the conjugate through a DEAE-cellulose column . 
When 1 ml of conjugate was passed through a column ( Af ) , the first and second milliliter fractions collected were the most specific and gave no nonspecific staining in some experiments , and very little in others . 
In the latter cases an additional treatment of the DEAE-cellulose-treated Af with 50 mg of sweet clover stem tissue powder further improved the specificity . 
After these treatments the conjugate did not stain healthy or crown gall sweet clover tissues or stained them a very faint green which was easily distinguishable from the bright yellow-green specific staining . 
With this purified conjugate the best staining procedure consisted of treating the sections with 1 : 10 dilution of Af for 30 minutes , washing with PBS for 15 minutes , staining with Af for 30 minutes , and washing with PBS for 15 minutes . 
The specificity of staining in WTV tumors with Af and Af but not with NS and Af or with antiserum to potato yellow-dwarf virus and Af , and the absence of such staining in crown gall tumor tissue from sweet-clover , indicate that an antigen of WTV was being stained . 
Direct method . 
Af was first conjugated with 50 mg of FITC per gram of globulin . 
This conjugate was passed twice through Dowex-2-chloride and treated with various tissue powders in the same manner as described for the indirect method . 
In all cases a disturbing amount of nonspecific staining was still present although it was still distinguishable from specific fluorescence . 
In later experiments , Af and Af were prepared by conjugating 8 mg of FITC per gram of globulin . 
These conjugates Af had much less nonspecific staining than the previous conjugate ( with 50 mg FITC per gram of globulin ) while the specific staining was similar in both cases . 
Nonspecific staining could be satisfactorily eliminated by passing these conjugates through a DEAE-cellulose column as described for Af . 
The best staining procedure with this purified Af consisted of staining with the conjugate for 30 minutes and washing in PBS for 15 minutes . 
The specificity of staining with Af was established as follows : Af specifically stained tumor sections but not sections of healthy sweet clover stems or of crown gall tumor tissue from sweet clover . 
Sections of tumors incited by WTV were not similarly stained with conjugated normal serum or conjugated antiserum to potato yellow-dwarf virus . 
After passing Af through DEAE-cellulose , the titer of antibodies to WTV in the specific fraction was 1 : 4 of the titer before such passage ( precipitin ring tests by R. F. Whitcomb ) ; ; but mere dilution of the conjugate to 1 : 4 did not satisfactorily remove nonspecific staining . 
This indicates that increase in specificity of Af after passing it through DEAE-cellulose was not merely due to dilution . 
Specific staining by DEAE-cellulose treated Af and Af , although clearly distinguishable under the microscope from either nonspecific staining or autofluorescence of cells , was not satisfactorily photographed to show such differences in spite of many attempts with black and white and color photography . 
This was chiefly because of the bluish white autofluorescence from the cells . 
The autofluorescence from the walls of the xylem cells was particularly brilliant . 
Distribution of virus antigen Results of specific staining by the direct and the indirect methods were similar and showed the localization of WTV antigen in certain tissues of tumors . 
The virus antigen was concentrated in the pseudophloem tissue . 
Frequently a few isolated thick-walled cells or , rarely , groups of such cells in the xylem region , were also specifically stained , but there was no such staining in epidermis , cortex , most xylem cells , ray cells , or pith . 
Within the pseudophloem cells the distribution of WTV antigen was irregular in the cytoplasm . 
No antigen was detectable in certain dark spherical areas in most cells . 
These areas are thought to represent the nuclei . 
In some tumor sections small spherical bodies , possibly inclusion bodies ( Littau and Black , 1952 ) stained more intensely than the rest of cytoplasm and probably contained more antigen . 
In all cases studied tissues of the stem on which the tumor had developed did not contain detectable amounts of WTV antigen . 
Discussion In both the direct and indirect methods of staining , the conjugates had nonspecifically staining fractions . 
In the indirect method , this was evident from the fact that tumor sections were stained light green even when stained with NS and Af or with Af only . 
In the direct method , Af , not further treated , stained certain tissues of healthy sweet clover stems nonspecifically and WTV tumor sections were similarly stained by comparable Af . 
After Af and Af were passed through Dowex-2-chloride twice and treated twice with healthy sweet clover tissue powder , nonspecific staining was greatly reduced but a disturbing amount of such staining was still present . 
Treatment of the conjugates with ethyl acetate , and the conjugates ( which had been passed through Dowex-2-chloride ) with mouse liver powder , sweet clover crown gall tissue powder , or healthy sweet clover proteins did not satisfactorily remove nonspecifically staining substances in the conjugates . 
Such treatments of the conjugates have usually been successful in eliminating nonspecific staining in several other systems ( Coons , 1958 ) . 
Schramm and Rottger ( 1959 ) did not report any such nonspecific staining of plant tissues with fluorescein isocyanate-labeled antiserum to tobacco mosaic virus . 
The reason for the failure of these treatments to eliminate nonspecific staining in the conjugates in our system is not known . 
In our work the best procedure for removing substances causing nonspecific staining in order to obtain specific conjugates was to pass the conjugates through a DEAE-cellulose column and in some cases to absorb the first and second milliliter fractions with sweet clover tissue powder . 
The specific staining by both direct and indirect methods showed that WTV antigen was concentrated in the pseudophloem tissue and in a few thick-walled cells in the xylem region , but was not detectable in any other tissues of the root and stem tumors . 
A study of the distribution of WTV antigen within the pseudophloem cells indicates that it is irregularly distributed in the cytoplasm . 
Wound-tumor virus is a leafhopper transmitted virus not easily transmissible by mechanical inoculation ( Black , 1944 ; ; Brakke et al , 1954 ) . 
The concentration and apparent localization of the WTV antigen in pseudophloem tissue of the tumor may indicate that the virus preferentially multiplies in the phloem and may need to be directly placed in this tissue in order to infect plants . 
Since emotional reactions in the higher vertebrates depend on individual experience and are aroused in man , in addition , by complex symbols , one would expect that the hypothalamus could be excited from the cortex . 
In experiments with topical application of strychnine on the cerebral cortex , the transmission of impulses from the cortex to the hypothalamus was demonstrated . 
Moreover , the responsiveness of the hypothalamus to nociceptive stimulation is greatly increased under these conditions . 
Even more complex and obviously cortically induced forms of emotional arousal could be elicited in monkey A on seeing monkey B ( but not a rabbit ) in emotional stress . 
A previously extinguished conditioned reaction was restored in monkey A and was associated with typical signs of emotional excitement including sympathetic discharges . 
It seems to follow that by and large an antagonism exists between the paleo- and the neocortex as far as emotional reactivity is concerned , and that the balance between the two systems determines the emotional responsiveness of the organism . 
In addition , the neocortical-hypothalamic relations play a great role in primates , as Mirsky's interesting experiment on the `` communication of affect '' demonstrates . 
But even in relatively primitive laboratory animals such as the rat , sex activity closely identified with the hypothalamus and the visceral brain is enhanced by the neocortex . 
MacLean stressed correctly the importance of the visceral brain for preservation of the individual and the species , as evidenced by the influence of the limbic brain ( including the hypothalamus ) on emotions related to fight and flight and also on sexual functions . 
It should be added that in man neocortical-hypothalamic interrelations probably play a role in the fusion of emotional processes with those underlying perception , memory , imagination , and creativity . 
Previous experiences are obviously of great importance for the qualitative and quantitative emotional response . 
The visceral brain as well as the neocortex is known to contribute to memory , but this topic is beyond the scope of this paper . 
13 . 
Hypothalamic balance and its significance After this brief discussion of neo- , paleocortical , and cortico-hypothalamic relations , let us return once more to the problem of hypothalamic balance and its physiological and pathological significance . 
Facilitatory processes take place between neocortex and hypothalamus via ascending and descending pathways . 
Thus cortico-fugal discharges induced by topical application of strychnine to a minute area in the neocortex summate with spikes present in the hypothalamus and cause increased convulsive discharges . 
On the other hand , the temporary reduction in hypothalamic excitability through the injection of a barbiturate into the posterior hypothalamus causes a lessening in frequency and amplitude of cortical strychnine spikes until the hypothalamic excitability is restored . 
Apparently , a positive feedback exists between the posterior hypothalamus and the cerebral cortex . 
Consequently , if for any reason the hypothalamic excitability falls below the physiological level , the lessened hypothalamic-cortical discharges lead to a diminished state of activity in the cortex with consequent reduction in the cortico-fugal discharges . 
Obviously , a vicious cycle develops . 
This tendency can be broken either by restoring hypothalamic excitability directly or via cortico-hypothalamic pathways . 
It is believed that drug therapy and electroshock involve the former and psychotherapy the latter mechanism . 
Before we comment further on these pathological conditions , we should remember that changes in the state of the hypothalamus within physiological limits distinguish sleep from wakefulness . 
Thus , a low intensity of hypothalamic-cortical discharges prevails in sleep and a high one during wakefulness , resulting in synchronous EEG potentials in the former and asynchrony in the latter condition . 
Moreover , the dominance in parasympathetic action ( with reciprocal inhibition of the sympathetic ) at the hypothalamic level induces , by its peripheral action , the autonomic symptoms of sleep and , by its action on the cortex , a lessening in the reactivity of the sensory and motor apparatus of the somatic nervous system . 
With the dominance of the sympathetic division of the hypothalamus , the opposite changes occur . 
Since electrical stimulation of the posterior hypothalamus produces the effects of wakefulness while stimulation of the anterior hypothalamus induces sleep , it may be said that the reactivity of the whole organism is altered by a change in the autonomic reactivity of the hypothalamus . 
Similar effects can be induced reflexly via the baroreceptor reflexes in man and animals . 
Of particular importance is the study of the actions of drugs in this respect . 
Although no drugs act exclusively on the hypothalamus or a part of it , there is sufficient specificity to distinguish drugs which shift the hypothalamic balance to the sympathetic side from those which produce a parasympathetic dominance . 
The former comprise analeptic and psychoactive drugs , the latter the tranquilizers . 
Specific differences exist in the action of different drugs belonging to the same group as , for instance , between reserpine and chlorpromazine . 
Important as these differences are , they should not obscure the basic fact that by shifting the hypothalamic balance sufficiently to the parasympathetic side , we produce depressions , whereas a shift in the opposite direction causes excitatory effects and , eventually , maniclike changes . 
The emotional states produced by drugs influence the cortical potentials in a characteristic manner ; ; synchrony prevails in the EEG of the experimental animal after administration of tranquilizers , but asynchrony after application of analeptic and psychoactive drugs . 
The shock therapies act likewise on the hypothalamic balance . 
Physiological experiments and clinical observations have shown that these procedures influence the hypothalamically controlled hypophyseal secretions and increase sympathetic discharges . 
They shift the hypothalamic balance to the sympathetic side . 
This explains the beneficial effect of electroshock therapy in certain depressions and a shift in the reaction from hypo- to normal reactivity of the sympathetic system as shown by the Mecholyl test . 
Some investigators have found a parallelism between remissions and return of the sympathetic reactivity of the hypothalamus to the normal level as indicated by the Mecholyl test and , conversely , between clinical impairment and increasing deviation of this test from the norm . 
Nevertheless , the theory that the determining influence of the hypothalamic balance has a profound influence on the clinical behavior of neuropsychiatric patients has not yet been tested on an adequate number of patients . 
The Mecholyl and noradrenalin tests applied with certain precautions are reliable indicators of this central autonomic balance , but for the sake of correlating autonomic and clinical states , and of studying the effect of certain therapeutic procedures on central autonomic reactions , additional tests seem to be desirable . 
It was assumed that the shift in autonomic hypothalamic balance occurring spontaneously in neuropsychiatric patients from the application of certain therapeutic procedures follows the pattern known from the sleep-wakefulness cycle . 
A change in the balance to the parasympathetic side leads in the normal individual to sleep or , in special circumstances , to cardiovascular collapse or nausea and vomiting . 
In both conditions the emotional and perceptual sensitivity is diminished , but no depression occurs such as is seen clinically or may be produced in normal persons by drugs . 
The fundamental differences between physiological and pathological states of parasympathetic ( and also of sympathetic ) dominance remain to be elucidated . 
Perhaps a clue to these and related problems lies in the fact that changes in the intensity of hypothalamic discharges which are associated with changes in its balance lead also to qualitative alterations in reactivity . 
A state of parasympathetic `` tuning '' of the hypothalamus induced experimentally causes not only an increase in the parsympathetic reactivity of this structure to direct and reflexly induced stimuli , but leads also to an autonomic reversal : a stimulus acting sympathetically under control conditions elicits in this state of tuning a parasympathetic response ! 
Furthermore , conditioned reactions are fundamentally altered when the hypothalamic sympathetic reactivity is augmented beyond a critical level , and several types of behavioral changes probably related to the degree of central autonomic `` tuning '' are observed . 
If , for instance , such a change is produced by one or a few insulin comas or electroshocks , previously inhibited conditioned reactions reappear . 
However , if these procedures are applied more often , conditioned emotional responses are temporarily abolished . 
In other studies , loss of differentiation in previously established conditioned reflexes resulted from repeated convulsive ( metrazol ) treatments , suggesting a fundamental disturbance in the balance between excitatory and inhibitory cerebral processes . 
It has further been shown that : ( 1 ) an experimental neurosis in its initial stages is associated with a reversible shift in the central autonomic balance ; ; ( 2 ) drugs altering the hypothalamic balance alter conditioned reactions ; ; ( 3 ) in a state of depression , the positive conditioned stimulus may fail to elicit a conditioned reaction but cause an increased synchrony instead of the excitatory desynchronizing ( alerting ) effect on the Aj . 
These are few and seemingly disjointed data , but they illustrate the important fact that fundamental alterations in conditioned reactions occur in a variety of states in which the hypothalamic balance has been altered by physiological experimentation , pharmacological action , or clinical processes . 
14 . 
On the physiological basis of some form of psychotherapy The foregoing remarks imply that the hypothalamic balance plays a crucial role at the crossroads between physiological and pathological forms of emotion . 
If this is the case , one would expect that not only the various procedures just mentioned which alter the hypothalamic balance would influence emotional state and behavior but that emotion itself would act likewise . 
We pointed out that emotional excitement may lead to psychosomatic disorders and neurotic symptoms , particularly in certain types of personality , but it is also known that the reliving of a strong emotion ( `` abreaction '' ) may cure a battle neurosis . 
This phenomenon raises the question whether the guidance of the emotions for therapeutic ends may not have an even wider application in the area of the neuroses . 
Being a strictly physiological procedure , one may expect from such a study additional information on the nature of the emotional process itself . 
Wolpe's experiments and therapeutic work lie in this area . 
He showed convincingly that anxiety is a learned ( conditioned ) reaction and is the basis of experimental and clinical neuroses and assumed , therefore , that the neuronal changes which underlie the neuroses are functional and reversible . 
An important observation of Pavlov served as a guide post to achieve such a reversibility by physiological means . 
In a conditioning experiment , he demonstrated the antagonism between feeding and pain . 
A mild electrical shock served as a conditioned stimulus and was followed by feeding . 
The pain became thus the symbol for food and elicited salivary secretion ( conditioned reflex ) . 
Even when the intensity of the shocks was increased gradually , it failed to evoke any signs of pain . 
Since strong nociceptive stimuli produce an experimental neurosis during which the animals fail to eat in the experimental situation , Wolpe thought that he could utilize the feeding-pain antagonism to inhibit the neurotic symptoms through feeding . 
Appropriate experiments showed that this is , indeed , possible . 
He then applied this principle of reciprocal inhibition to human neuroses . 
He took advantage of the antagonism between aggressive assertiveness and anxiety and found a relatively rapid disappearance of anxiety when the former attitude was established . 
For the interpretation of these significant investigations , it should be remembered that reciprocal relations exist in the hypothalamus with respect to autonomic and somatic functions which are closely associated with the emotions . 
The feeding-pain antagonism seems to be based on this reciprocal relation between the tropho- and ergotropic systems . 
Furthermore , a functional antagonism exists between an aggressive attitude and a state of anxiety . 
Although in both emotions sympathetic symptoms are present , different autonomic-somatic patterns underlie aggression and anxiety , respectively , as indicated by the rate of the excretion of the catecholamines , the state of the muscle tone , and the Mecholyl test . 
The psychological incompatibility of these emotional states seems to be reflected in , or based on , this marked difference . 
15 . 
Concluding remarks In our attempt to interpret the emotions in their physiological and pathological range , we emphasized the importance of the degree of activity of the parasympathetic and sympathetic divisions of the hypothalamic system and their influence on the inhibitory and excitatory systems , respectively . 
We stressed the reciprocal relation of these systems with respect to the autonomic-somatic downward discharge as well as regarding the hypothalamic-cortical discharge . 
Although we are still far from a complete understanding of these problems , as a first approximation , it is suggested that alterations in the hypothalamic balance with consequent changes in the hypothalamic-cortical discharges account for major changes in behavior seen in various moods and states of emotions in man and beast under physiological circumstances , in experimental and clinical neurosis , and as the result of psychopharmacological agents . 
In view of the important role which emotional disturbances play in the genesis of neurotic and psychotic disorders and the parallelism observed between autonomic states and psychological behavior in several instances , it is further suggested that a hypothalamic imbalance may play an important role in initiating mental changes . 
6.4 . 
The primary decomposition theorem We are trying to study a linear operator T on the finite-dimensional space V , by decomposing T into a direct sum of operators which are in some sense elementary . 
We can do this through the characteristic values and vectors of T in certain special cases , i.e. , when the minimal polynomial for T factors over the scalar field F into a product of distinct monic polynomials of degree 1 . 
What can we do with the general T ? 
If we try to study T using characteristic values , we are confronted with two problems . 
First , T may not have a single characteristic value ; ; this is really a deficiency in the scalar field , namely , that it is not algebraically closed . 
Second , even if the characteristic polynomial factors completely over F into a product of polynomials of degree 1 , there may not be enough characteristic vectors for T to span the space V . 
This is clearly a deficiency in T . 
The second situation is illustrated by the operator T on Af ( F any field ) represented in the standard basis by Af . 
The characteristic polynomial for A is Af and this is plainly also the minimal polynomial for A ( or for T ) . 
Thus T is not diagonalizable . 
One sees that this happens because the null space of Af has dimension 1 only . 
On the other hand , the null space of Af and the null space of Af together span V , the former being the subspace spanned by Af and the latter the subspace spanned by Af and Af . 
This will be more or less our general method for the second problem . 
If ( remember this is an assumption ) the minimal polynomial for T decomposes Af where Af are distinct elements of F , then we shall show that the space V is the direct sum of the null spaces of Af . 
The diagonalizable operator is the special case of this in which Af for each i . 
The theorem which we prove is more general than what we have described , since it works with the primary decomposition of the minimal polynomial , whether or not the primes which enter are all of first degree . 
The reader will find it helpful to think of the special case when the primes are of degree 1 , and even more particularly , to think of the proof of Theorem 10 , a special case of this theorem . 
Theorem 12 . 
( primary decomposition theorem ) . 
Let T be a linear operator on the finite-dimensional vector space V over the field F . 
Let p be the minimal polynomial for T , Af , where the Af , are distinct irreducible monic polynomials over F and the Af are positive integers . 
Let Af be the null space of Af . 
Then ( A ) Af ; ; ( B ) each Af is invariant under T ; ; ( C ) if Af is the operator induced on Af by T , then the minimal polynomial for Af is Af . 
Proof . 
The idea of the proof is this . 
If the direct-sum decomposition ( A ) is valid , how can we get hold of the projections Af associated with the decomposition ? 
The projection Af will be the identity on Af and zero on the other Af . 
We shall find a polynomial Af such that Af is the identity on Af and is zero on the other Af , and so that Af , etc. . 
For each i , let Af . 
Since Af are distinct prime polynomials , the polynomials Af are relatively prime ( Theorem 8 , Chapter 4 ) . 
Thus there are polynomials Af such that Af . 
Note also that if Af , then Af is divisible by the polynomial p , because Af contains each Af as a factor . 
We shall show that the polynomials Af behave in the manner described in the first paragraph of the proof . 
Let Af . 
Since Af and P divides Af for Af , we have Af . 
Thus the Af are projections which correspond to some direct-sum decomposition of the space V . 
We wish to show that the range of Af is exactly the subspace Af . 
It is clear that each vector in the range of Af is in Af for if **ya is in the range of Af , then Af and so Af because Af is divisible by the minimal polynomial P . 
Conversely , suppose that **ya is in the null space of Af . 
If Af , then Af is divisible by Af and so Af , i.e. , Af . 
But then it is immediate that Af , i.e. , that **ya is in the range of Af . 
This completes the proof of statement ( A ) . 
It is certainly clear that the subspaces Af are invariant under T . 
If Af is the operator induced on Af by T , then evidently Af , because by definition Af is 0 on the subspace Af . 
This shows that the minimal polynomial for Af divides Af . 
Conversely , let G be any polynomial such that Af . 
Then Af . 
Thus Af is divisible by the minimal polynomial P of T , i.e. , Af divides Af . 
It is easily seen that Af divides G . 
Hence the minimal polynomial for Af is Af . 
Corollary . 
If Af are the projections associated with the primary decomposition of T , then each Af is a polynomial in T , and accordingly if a linear operator U commutes with T then U commutes with each of the Af , i.e. , each subspace Af is invariant under U . 
In the notation of the proof of Theorem 12 , let us take a look at the special case in which the minimal polynomial for T is a product of first-degree polynomials , i.e. , the case in which each Af is of the form Af . 
Now the range of Af is the null space Af of Af . 
Let us put Af . 
By Theorem 10 , D is a diagonalizable operator which we shall call the diagonalizable part of T . 
Let us look at the operator Af . 
Now Af Af so Af . 
The reader should be familiar enough with projections by now so that he sees that Af and in general that Af . 
When Af for each i , we shall have Af , because the operator Af will then be 0 on the range of Af . 
Definition . 
Let N be a linear operator on the vector space V . 
We say that N is nilpotent if there is some positive integer R such that Af . 
Theorem 13 . 
Let T be a linear operator on the finite-dimensional vector space V over the field F . 
Suppose that the minimal polynomial for T decomposes over F into a product of linear polynomials . 
Then there is a diagonalizable operator D on V and a nilpotent operator N in V such that ( A ) Af , ( b ) Af . 
The diagonalizable operator D and the nilpotent operator N are uniquely determined by ( A ) and ( B ) and each of them is a polynomial in T . 
Proof . 
We have just observed that we can write Af where D is diagonalizable and N is nilpotent , and where D and N not only commute but are polynomials in T . 
Now suppose that we also have Af where D' is diagonalizable , N' is nilpotent , and Af . 
We shall prove that Af . 
Since D' and N' commute with one another and Af , we see that D' and N' commute with T . 
Thus D' and N' commute with any polynomial in T ; ; hence they commute with D and with N . 
Now we have Af or Af and all four of these operators commute with one another . 
Since D and D' are both diagonalizable and they commute , they are simultaneously diagonalizable , and Af is diagonalizable . 
Since N and N' are both nilpotent and they commute , the operator Af is nilpotent ; ; for , using the fact that N and N' commute Af and so when R is sufficiently large every term in this expression for Af will be 0 . 
( Actually , a nilpotent operator on an n-dimensional space must have its T power 0 ; ; if we take Af above , that will be large enough . 
It then follows that Af is large enough , but this is not obvious from the above expression . 
) Now Af is a diagonalizable operator which is also nilpotent . 
Such an operator is obviously the zero operator ; ; for since it is nilpotent , the minimal polynomial for this operator is of the form Af for some Af ; ; but then since the operator is diagonalizable , the minimal polynomial cannot have a repeated root ; ; hence Af and the minimal polynomial is simply x , which says the operator is 0 . 
Thus we see that Af and Af . 
Corollary . 
Let V be a finite-dimensional vector space over an algebraically closed field F , e.g. , the field of complex numbers . 
Then every linear operator T in V can be written as the sum of a diagonalizable operator D and a nilpotent operator N which commute . 
These operators D and N are unique and each is a polynomial in T . 
From these results , one sees that the study of linear operators on vector spaces over an algebraically closed field is essentially reduced to the study of nilpotent operators . 
For vector spaces over non-algebraically closed fields , we still need to find some substitute for characteristic values and vectors . 
It is a very interesting fact that these two problems can be handled simultaneously and this is what we shall do in the next chapter . 
In concluding this section , we should like to give an example which illustrates some of the ideas of the primary decomposition theorem . 
We have chosen to give it at the end of the section since it deals with differential equations and thus is not purely linear algebra . 
Example 11 . 
In the primary decomposition theorem , it is not necessary that the vector space V be finite dimensional , nor is it necessary for parts ( A ) and ( B ) that P be the minimal polynomial for T . 
If T is a linear operator on an arbitrary vector space and if there is a monic polynomial P such that Af , then parts ( A ) and ( B ) of Theorem 12 are valid for T with the proof which we gave . 
Let N be a positive integer and let V be the space of all N times continuously differentiable functions F on the real line which satisfy the differential equation Af where Af are some fixed constants . 
If Af denotes the space of N times continuously differentiable functions , then the space V of solutions of this differential equation is a subspace of Af . 
If D denotes the differentiation operator and P is the polynomial Af then V is the null space of the operator p ( , ) , because Af simply says Af . 
Let us now regard D as a linear operator on the subspace V . 
Then Af . 
If we are discussing differentiable complex-valued functions , then Af and V are complex vector spaces , and Af may be any complex numbers . 
We now write Af where Af are distinct complex numbers . 
If Af is the null space of Af , then Theorem 12 says that Af . 
In other words , if F satisfies the differential equation Af , then F is uniquely expressible in the form Af where Af satisfies the differential equation Af . 
Thus , the study of the solutions to the equation Af is reduced to the study of the space of solutions of a differential equation of the form Af . 
This reduction has been accomplished by the general methods of linear algebra , i.e. , by the primary decomposition theorem . 
To describe the space of solutions to Af , one must know something about differential equations ; ; that is , one must know something about D other than the fact that it is a linear operator . 
However , one does not need to know very much . 
It is very easy to establish by induction on R that if F is in Af then Af ; ; that is , Af , etc. . 
Thus Af if and only if Af . 
A function G such that Af , i.e. , Af , must be a polynomial function of degree Af or less : Af . 
Thus F satisfies Af if and only if F has the form Af . 
Accordingly , the ' functions ' Af span the space of solutions of Af . 
Since Af are linearly independent functions and the exponential function has no zeros , these R functions Af , form a basis for the space of solutions . 
7-1 . 
Examples of binomial experiments Some experiments are composed of repetitions of independent trials , each with two possible outcomes . 
The binomial probability distribution may describe the variation that occurs from one set of trials of such a binomial experiment to another . 
We devote a chapter to the binomial distribution not only because it is a mathematical model for an enormous variety of real life phenomena , but also because it has important properties that recur in many other probability models . 
We begin with a few examples of binomial experiments . 
Marksmanship example . 
A trained marksman shooting five rounds at a target , all under practically the same conditions , may hit the bull's-eye from 0 to 5 times . 
In repeated sets of five shots his numbers of bull's-eyes vary . 
What can we say of the probabilities of the different possible numbers of bull's-eyes ? 
Inheritance in mice . 
In litters of eight mice from similar parents , the number of mice with straight instead of wavy hair is an integer from 0 to 8 . 
What probabilities should be attached to these possible outcomes ? 
Aces ( ones ) with three dice . 
When three dice are tossed repeatedly , what is the probability that the number of aces is 0 ( or 1 , or 2 , or 3 ) ? 
General binomial problem . 
More generally , suppose that an experiment consists of a number of independent trials , that each trial results in either a `` success '' or a `` non-success '' ( `` failure '' ) , and that the probability of success remains constant from trial to trial . 
In the examples above , the occurrence of a bull's-eye , a straight-haired mouse , or an ace could be called a `` success '' . 
In general , any outcome we choose may be labeled `` success '' . 
The major question in this chapter is : What is the probability of exactly X successes in N trials ? 
In Chapters 3 and 4 we answered questions like those in the examples , usually by counting points in a sample space . 
Fortunately , a general formula of wide applicability solves all problems of this kind . 
Before deriving this formula , we explain what we mean by `` problems of this kind '' . 
Experiments are often composed of several identical trials , and sometimes experiments themselves are repeated . 
In the marksmanship example , a trial consists of `` one round shot at a target '' with outcome either one bull's-eye ( success ) or none ( failure ) . 
Further , an experiment might consist of five rounds , and several sets of five rounds might be regarded as a super-experiment composed of several repetitions of the five-round experiment . 
If three dice are tossed , a trial is one toss of one die and the experiment is composed of three trials . 
Or , what amounts to the same thing , if one die is tossed three times , each toss is a trial , and the three tosses form the experiment . 
Mathematically , we shall not distinguish the experiment of three dice tossed once from that of one die tossed three times . 
These examples are illustrative of the use of the words `` trial '' and `` experiment '' as they are used in this chapter , but they are quite flexible words and it is well not to restrict them too narrowly . 
Example 1 . 
Student football managers . 
Ten students act as managers for a high-school football team , and of these managers a proportion P are licensed drivers . 
Each Friday one manager is chosen by lot to stay late and load the equipment on a truck . 
On three Fridays the coach has needed a driver . 
Considering only these Fridays , what is the probability that the coach had drivers all 3 times ? 
Exactly 2 times ? 
1 time ? 
0 times ? 
Discussion . 
Note that there are 3 trials of interest . 
Each trial consists of choosing a student manager at random . 
The 2 possible outcomes on each trial are `` driver '' or `` nondriver '' . 
Since the choice is by lot each week , the outcomes of different trials are independent . 
The managers stay the same , so that Af is the same for all weeks . 
We now generalize these ideas for general binomial experiments . 
For an experiment to qualify as a binomial experiment , it must have four properties : ( 1 ) there must be a fixed number of trials , ( 2 ) each trial must result in a `` success '' or a `` failure '' ( a binomial trial ) , ( 3 ) all trials must have identical probabilities of success , ( 4 ) the trials must be independent of each other . 
Below we use our earlier examples to describe and illustrate these four properties . 
We also give , for each property , an example where the property is absent . 
The language and notation introduced are standard throughout the chapter . 
1 . 
There must be a fixed number n of repeated trials . 
For the marksman , we study sets of five shots ( Af ) ; ; for the mice , we restrict attention to litters of eight ( Af ) ; ; and for the aces , we toss three dice ( Af ) . 
Experiment without a fixed number of trials . 
Toss a die until an ace appears . 
Here the number of trials is a random variable , not a fixed number . 
2 . 
Binomial trials . 
Each of the N trials is either a success or a failure . 
`` Success '' and `` failure '' are just convenient labels for the two categories of outcomes when we talk about binomial trials in general . 
These words are more expressive than labels like `` A '' and `` not-A '' . 
It is natural from the marksman's viewpoint to call a bull's-eye a success , but in the mice example it is arbitrary which category corresponds to straight hair in a mouse . 
The word `` binomial '' means `` of two names '' or `` of two terms '' , and both usages apply in our work : the first to the names of the two outcomes of a binomial trial , and the second to the terms P and Af that represent the probabilities of `` success '' and `` failure '' . 
Sometimes when there are many outcomes for a single trial , we group these outcomes into two classes , as in the example of the die , where we have arbitrarily constructed the classes `` ace '' and `` not-ace '' . 
Experiment without the two-class property . 
We classify mice as `` straight-haired '' or `` wavy-haired '' , but a hairless mouse appears . 
We can escape from such a difficulty by ruling out the animal as not constituting a trial , but such a solution is not always satisfactory . 
3 . 
All trials have identical probabilities of success . 
Each die has probability Af of producing an ace ; ; the marksman has some probability p , perhaps 0.1 , of making a bull's-eye . 
Note that we need not know the value of p , for the experiment to be binomial . 
Experiment where p is not constant . 
During a round of target practice the sun comes from behind a cloud and dazzles the marksman , lowering his chance of a bull's-eye . 
4 . 
The trials are independent . 
Strictly speaking , this means that the probability for each possible outcome of the experiment can be computed by multiplying together the probabilities of the possible outcomes of the single binomial trials . 
Thus in the three-dice example Af , Af , and the independence assumption imply that the probability that the three dice fall ace , not-ace , ace in that order is Af . 
Experimentally , we expect independence when the trials have nothing to do with one another . 
Examples where independence fails . 
A family of five plans to go together either to the beach or to the mountains , and a coin is tossed to decide . 
We want to know the number of people going to the mountains . 
When this experiment is viewed as composed of five binomial trials , one for each member of the family , the outcomes of the trials are obviously not independent . 
Indeed , the experiment is better viewed as consisting of one binomial trial for the entire family . 
The following is a less extreme example of dependence . 
Consider couples visiting an art museum . 
Each person votes for one of a pair of pictures to receive a popular prize . 
Voting for one picture may be called `` success '' , for the other `` failure '' . 
An experiment consists of the voting of one couple , or two trials . 
In repetitions of the experiment from couple to couple , the votes of the two persons in a couple probably agree more often than independence would imply , because couples who visit the museum together are more likely to have similar tastes than are a random pair of people drawn from the entire population of visitors . 
Table 7-1 illustrates the point . 
The table shows that 0.6 of the boys and 0.6 of the girls vote for picture A . 
Therefore , under independent voting , Af or 0.36 of the couples would cast two votes for picture A , and Af or 0.16 would cast two votes for picture B . 
Thus in independent voting , Af or 0.52 of the couples would agree . 
But Table 7-1 shows that Af or 0.70 agree , too many for independent voting . 
Each performance of an n-trial binomial experiment results in some whole number from 0 through N as the value of the random variable X , where Af . 
We want to study the probability function of this random variable . 
For example , we are interested in the number of bull's-eyes , not which shots were bull's-eyes . 
A binomial experiment can produce random variables other than the number of successes . 
For example , the marksman gets 5 shots , but we take his score to be the number of shots before his first bull's-eye , that is , 0 , 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 ( or 5 , if he gets no bull's-eye ) . 
Thus we do not score the number of bull's-eyes , and the random variable is not the number of successes . 
The constancy of P and the independence are the conditions most likely to give trouble in practice . 
Obviously , very slight changes in P do not change the probabilities much , and a slight lack of independence may not make an appreciable difference . 
( For instance , see Example 2 of Section 5-5 , on red cards in hands of 5 . 
) On the other hand , even when the binomial model does not describe well the physical phenomenon being studied , the binomial model may still be used as a baseline for comparative purposes ; ; that is , we may discuss the phenomenon in terms of its departures from the binomial model . 
To summarize : A binomial experiment consists of Af independent binomial trials , all with the same probability Af of yielding a success . 
The outcome of the experiment is X successes . 
The random variable X takes the values Af with probabilities Af or , more briefly Af . 
We shall find a formula for the probability of exactly X successes for given values of P and N . 
When each number of successes X is paired with its probability of occurrence Af , the set of pairs Af , is a probability function called a binomial distribution . 
The choice of P and N determines the binomial distribution uniquely , and different choices always produce different distributions ( except when Af ; ; then the number of successes is always 0 ) . 
The set of all binomial distributions is called the family of binomial distributions , but in general discussions this expression is often shortened to `` the binomial distribution '' , or even `` the binomial '' when the context is clear . 
Binomial distributions were treated by James Bernoulli about 1700 , and for this reason binomial trials are sometimes called Bernoulli trials . 
Random variables . 
Each binomial trial of a binomial experiment produces either 0 or 1 success . 
Therefore each binomial trial can be thought of as producing a value of a random variable associated with that trial and taking the values 0 and 1 , with probabilities Q and P respectively . 
The several trials of a binomial experiment produce a new random variable X , the total number of successes , which is just the sum of the random variables associated with the single trials . 
Example 2 . 
The marksman gets two bull's-eyes , one on his third shot and one on his fifth . 
The numbers of successes on the five individual shots are , then , 0 , 0 , 1 , 0 , 1 . 
The number of successes on each shot is a value of a random variable that has values 0 or 1 , and there are 5 such random variables here . 
Their sum is X , the total number of successes , which in this experiment has the value Af . 
Consider a simple , closed , plane curve C which is a real-analytic image of the unit circle , and which is given by Af . 
These are real analytic periodic functions with period T . 
In the following paper it is shown that in a certain definite sense , exactly an odd number of squares can be inscribed in every such curve which does not contain an infinite number of inscribed squares . 
This theorem is similar to the theorem of Kakutani that there exists a circumscribing cube around any closed , bounded convex set in Af . 
The latter theorem has been generalized by Yamabe and Yujobo , and Cairns to show that in Af there are families of such cubes . 
Here , for the case of squares inscribed in plane curves , we remove the restriction to convexity and give certain other results . 
A square inscribed in a curve C means a square with its four corner points on the curve , though it may not lie entirely in the interior of C . 
Indeed , the spiral Af , with the two endpoints connected by a straight line possesses only one inscribed square . 
The square has one corner point on the straight line segment , and does not lie entirely in the interior . 
On C , from the point P at Af to the point Q at Af , we construct the chord , and upon the chord as a side erect a square in such a way that as S approaches zero the square is inside C . 
As S increases we consider the two free corner points of the square , Af and Af , adjacent to P and Q respectively . 
As S approaches T the square will be outside C and therefore both Af and Af must cross C an odd number of times as S varies from zero to T . 
The points may also touch C without crossing . 
Suppose Af crosses C when Af . 
We now have certain squares with three corners on C . 
For any such square the middle corner of these will be called the vertex of the square and the corner not on the curve will be called the diagonal point of the square . 
Each point on C , as a vertex , may possess a finite number of corresponding diagonal points by the above construction . 
To each paired vertex and diagonal point there corresponds a unique forward corner point , i.e. , the corner on C reached first by proceeding along C from the vertex in the direction of increasing T . 
If the vertex is at Af , and if the interior of C is on the left as one moves in the direction of increasing t , then every such corner can be found from the curve obtained by rotating C clockwise through 90-degrees about the vertex . 
The set of intersections of Af , the rotated curve , with the original curve C consists of just the set of forward corner points on C corresponding to the vertex at Af , plus the vertex itself . 
We note that two such curves C and Af , cannot coincide at more than a finite number of points ; ; otherwise , being analytic , they would coincide at all points , which is impossible since they do not coincide near Af . 
With each vertex we associate certain numerical values , namely the set of positive differences in the parameter T between the vertex and its corresponding forward corner points . 
For the vertex at Af , these values will be denoted by Af . 
The function f{t} defined in this way is multi-valued . 
We consider now the graph of the function f{t} on Af . 
We will refer to the plane of C and Af as the C-plane and to the plane of the graph as the Aj . 
The graph , as a set , may have a finite number of components . 
We will denote the values of f{t} on different components by Af . 
Each point with abscissa T on the graph represents an intersection between C and Af . 
There are two types of such intersections , depending essentially on whether the curves cross at the point of intersection . 
An ordinary point will be any point of intersection A such that in every neighborhood of A in the C-plane , Af meets both the interior and the exterior of C . 
Any other point of intersection between C and Af will be called a tangent point . 
This terminology will also be applied to the corresponding points in the Aj . 
We can now prove several lemmas . 
Lemma 1 . 
In some neighborhood in the f-plane of any ordinary point of the graph , the function f is a single-valued , continuous function . 
Proof . 
We first show that the function is single-valued in some neighborhood . 
With the vertex at Af in the C-plane we assume that Af is the parametric location on C of an ordinary intersection Q between C and Af . 
In the f-plane the coordinates of the corresponding point are Af . 
We know that in the C-plane both C and Af are analytic . 
In the C-plane we construct a set of rectangular Cartesian coordinates u , V with the origin at Q and such that both C and Af have finite slope at Q . 
Near Q , both curves can be represented by analytic functions of U . 
In a neighborhood of Q the difference between these functions is also a single-valued , analytic function of U . 
Furthermore , one can find a neighborhood of Q in which the difference function is monotone , for since it is analytic it can have only a finite number of extrema in any interval . 
Now , to find Af , one needs the intersection of C and Af near Q . 
But Af is just the curve Af translated without rotation through a small arc , for Af is always obtained by rotating C through exactly 90-degrees . 
The arc is itself a segment of an analytic curve . 
Thus if E is sufficiently small , there can be only one intersection of C and Af near Q , for if there were more than one intersection for every E then the difference between C and Af near Q would not be a monotone function . 
Therefore , Af is single-valued near Q . 
It is also seen that Af , since the change from Af to Af is accomplished by a continuous translation . 
Thus Af is also continuous at Af , and in a neighborhood of Af which does not contain a tangent point . 
We turn now to the set of tangent points on the graph . 
This set must consist of isolated points and closed intervals . 
The fact that there can not be any limit points of the set except in closed intervals follows from the argument used in Lemma 1 , namely , that near any tangent point in the C-plane the curves C and Af are analytic , and therefore the difference between them must be a monotone function in some neighborhood on either side of the tangent point . 
This prevents the occurrence of an infinite sequence of isolated tangent points . 
Lemma 2 . 
In some neighborhood of an isolated tangent point in the f-plane , say Af , the function Af is either double-valued or has no values defined , except at the tangent point itself , where it is single-valued . 
Proof . 
A tangent point Q in the C-plane occurs when C and Af are tangent to one another . 
A continuous change in T through an amount E results in a translation along an analytic arc of the curve Af . 
There are three possibilities : ( A ) Af remains tangent to C as it is translated ; ; ( B ) Af moves away from C and does not intersect it at all for Af ; ; ( C ) Af cuts across C and there are two ordinary intersections for every T in Af . 
The first possibility results in a closed interval of tangent points in the f-plane , the end points of which fall into category ( B ) or ( C ) . 
In the second category the function Af has no values defined in a neighborhood Af . 
In the third category the function is double-valued in this interval . 
The same remarks apply to an interval on the other side of Af . 
Again , the analyticity of the two curves guarantees that such intervals exist . 
In the neighborhood of an end point of an interval of tangent points in the f-plane the function is two-valued or no-valued on one side , and is a single-valued function consisting entirely of tangent points on the other side . 
With the above results we can make the following remarks about the graph of F . 
First , for any value of T for which all values of f{t} are ordinary points the number of values of f{t} must be odd . 
For it is clear that the total number of ordinary intersections of C and Af must be even ( otherwise , starting in the interior of C , Af could not finally return to the interior ) , and the center of rotation at T is the argument of the function , not a value . 
Therefore , for any value of T the number of values of f{t} is equal to the ( finite ) number of tangent points corresponding to the argument T plus an odd number . 
Definition . 
The number of ordinary values of the function f{t} at T will be called its multiplicity at T . 
Lemma 3 . 
The graph of f has at least one component whose support is the entire interval Aj . 
Proof . 
We suppose not . 
Then every component of the graph of F must be defined over a bounded sub-interval . 
Suppose Af is defined in the sub-interval Af . 
Now Af and Af must both be tangent points on the T component in the f-plane ; ; otherwise by Lemma 1 the component would extend beyond these points . 
Further , we see by Lemma 2 that the multiplicity of F can only change at a tangent point , and at such a point can only change by an even integer . 
Thus the multiplicity of Af for a given T must be an even number . 
This is true of all components which have such a bounded support . 
But this is a contradiction , for we know that the multiplicity of f{t} is odd for every T . 
We have shown that the graph of F contains at least one component whose inverse is the entire interval {0,T} , and whose multiplicity is odd . 
There must be an odd number of such components , which will be called complete components . 
The remaining ( incomplete ) components all have an even number of ordinary points at any argument , and are defined only on a proper sub-interval of Aj . 
We must now show that on some component of the graph there exist two points for which the corresponding diagonal points in the C-plane are on opposite sides of C . 
We again consider a fixed point P at Af and a variable point Q at Af on C . 
We erect a square with PQ as a side and with free corners Af and Af adjacent to P and Q respectively . 
As S varies from zero to T , the values of S for which Af and Af cross C will be denoted by Af and Af respectively . 
We have Af , plus tangent points . 
These s-values are just the ordinary values of Af . 
Lemma 4 . 
The values Af are the ordinary values at Af of a multi-valued function g{t} which has components corresponding to those of f{t} . 
Proof . 
We first define a function b{t} as follows : given the set of squares such that each has three corners on C and vertex at t , b{t} is the corresponding set of positive parametric differences between T and the backward corner points . 
The functions F and B have exactly the same multiplicity at every argument T . 
Now with P fixed at Af , Af-values occur when the corner Af crosses C , and are among the values of S such that Af . 
The roots of this equation are just the ordinates of the intersections of the graph of B with a straight line of unit slope through Af in the b-plane ( the plane of the graph of b ) . 
We define these values as Af , and define g{t} in the same way for each T . 
Thus we obtain g{t} by introducing an oblique g{t}-axis in the Aj . 
Introduction . 
In 1 we investigate a new series of line involutions in a projective space of three dimensions over the field of complex numbers . 
These are defined by a simple involutorial transformation of the points in which a general line meets a nonsingular quadric surface bearing a curve of symbol Af . 
Then in 2 we show that any line involution with the properties that ( A ) It has no complex of invariant lines , and ( B ) Its singular lines form a complex consisting exclusively of the lines which meet a twisted curve , is necessarily of the type discussed in 1 . 
No generalization of these results to spaces of more than three dimensions has so far been found possible . 
1 . 
Let Q be a nonsingular quadric surface bearing reguli Af and Af , and let **zg be a Af curve of order K on Q . 
A general line L meets Q in two points , Af and Af , through each of which passes a unique generator of the regulus , Af , whose lines are simple secants of Aj . 
On these generators let Af and Af be , respectively , the harmonic conjugates of Af and Af with respect to the two points in which the corresponding generator meets Aj . 
The line Af is the image of L . 
Clearly , the transformation is involutorial . 
We observe first that no line , l , can meet its image except at one of its intersections with Q . 
For if it did , the plane of L and l' would contain two generators of Af , which is impossible . 
Moreover , from the definitive transformation of intercepts on the generators of Af , it is clear that the only points of Q at which a line can meet its image are the points of Aj . 
Hence the totality of singular lines is the T order complex of lines which meet Aj . 
The invariant lines are the lines of the congruence of secants of **zg , since each of these meets Q in two points which are invariant . 
The order of this congruence is Af , since Af secants of a curve of symbol ( B ) on a quadric surface pass through an arbitrary point . 
The class of the congruence is Af , since an arbitrary plane meets **zg in K points . 
Since the complex of singular lines is of order K and since there is no complex of invariant lines , it follows from the formula Af that the order of the involution is Af . 
There are various sets of exceptional lines , or lines whose images are not unique . 
The most obvious of these is the quadratic complex of tangents to Q , each line of which is transformed into the entire pencil of lines tangent to Q at the image of the point of tangency of the given line . 
Thus pencils of tangents to Q are transformed into pencils of tangents . 
It is interesting that a 1 : 1 correspondence can be established between the lines of two such pencils , so that in a sense a unique image can actually be assigned to each tangent . 
For the lines of any plane , **yp , meeting Q in a conic C , are transformed into the congruence of secants of the curve C' into which C is transformed in the point involution on Q . 
In particular , tangents to C are transformed into tangents to C' . 
Moreover , if Af and Af are two planes intersecting in a line l , tangent to Q at a point P , the two free intersections of the image curves Af and Af must coincide at P' , the image of P , and at this point Af and Af must have a common tangent l' . 
Hence , thought of as a line in a particular plane **yp , any tangent to Q has a unique image and moreover this image is the same for all planes through L . 
Each generator , **yl , of Af is also exceptional , for each is transformed into the entire congruence of secants of the curve into which that generator is transformed by the point involution on Q . 
This curve is of symbol Af since it meets **yl , and hence every line of Af in the Af invariant points on **yl and since it obviously meets every line of Af in a single point . 
The congruence of its secants is therefore of order Af and class Af . 
A final class of exceptional lines is identifiable from the following considerations : Since no two generators of Af can intersect , it follows that their image curves can have no free intersections . 
In other words , these curves have only fixed intersections common to them all . 
Now the only way in which all curves of the image family of Af can pass through a fixed point is to have a generator of Af which is not a secant but a tangent of **zg , for then any point on such a generator will be transformed into the point of tangency . 
Since two curves of symbol Af on Q intersect in Af points , it follows that there are Af lines of Af which are tangent to Aj . 
Clearly , any line , l , of any bundle having one of these points of tangency , T , as vertex will be transformed into the entire pencil having the image of the second intersection of L and Q as vertex and lying in the plane determined by the image point and the generator of Af which is tangent to **zg at T . 
A line through two of these points , Af and Af , will be transformed into the entire bilinear congruence having the tangents to **zg at Af and Af as directrices . 
A conic , C , being a ( 1 , 1 ) curve on Q , meets the image of any line of Af , which we have already found to be a Af curve on Q , in Af points . 
Hence its image , C' , meets any line of Af in Af points . 
Moreover , C' obviously meets any line Af in a single point . 
Hence C' is a Af curve on Q . 
Therefore , the congruence of its secants , that is the image of a general plane field of lines , is of order Af and class Af . 
Finally , the image of a general bundle of lines is a congruence whose order is the order of the congruence of invariant lines , namely Af and whose class is the order of the image congruence of a general plane field of lines , namely Af . 
2 . 
The preceding observations make it clear that there exist line involutions of all orders greater than 1 with no complex of invariant lines and with a complex of singular lines consisting exclusively of the lines which meet a twisted curve Aj . 
We now shall show that any involution with these characteristics is necessarily of the type we have just described . 
To do this we must first show that every line which meets **zg in a point P meets its image at P . 
To see this , consider a general pencil of lines containing a general secant of Aj . 
By ( 1 ) , the image of this pencil is a ruled surface of order Af which is met by the plane of the pencil in a curve , C , of order Af . 
On C there is a Af correspondence in which the Af points cut from C by a general line , l , of the pencil correspond to the point of intersection of the image of L and the plane of the pencil . 
Since C is rational , this correspondence has K coincidences , each of which implies a line of the pencil which meets its image . 
However , since the pencil contains a secant of **zg it actually contains only Af singular lines . 
To avoid this contradiction it is necessary that C be composite , with the secant of **zg and a curve of order Af as components . 
Thus it follows that the secants of **zg are all invariant . 
But if this is the case , then an arbitrary pencil of lines having a point , P , of **zg as vertex is transformed into a ruled surface of order Af having Af generators concurrent at P . 
Since a ruled surface of order N with N concurrent generators is necessarily a cone , it follows finally that every line through a point , P , of **zg meets its image at P , as asserted . 
Now consider the transformation of the lines of a bundle with vertex , P , on **zg which is effected by the involution as a whole . 
From the preceding remarks , it is clear that such a bundle is transformed into itself in an involutorial fashion . 
Moreover , in this involution there is a cone of invariant lines of order Af , namely the cone of secants of **zg which pass through P . 
Hence it follows that the involution within the bundle must be a perspective De Jonquieres involution of order Af and the invariant locus must have a multiple line of multiplicity either Af or Af . 
The first possibility requires that there be a line through P which meets **zg in Af points ; ; the second requires that there be a line through P which meets **zg in Af points . 
In each case , lines of the bundles are transformed by involutions within the pencils they determine with the multiple secant . 
In the first case the fixed elements within each pencil are the multiple secant and the line joining the vertex , P , to the intersection of **zg and the plane of the pencil which does not lie on the multiple secant . 
In the second , the fixed elements are the lines which join the vertex , P , to the two intersections of **zg and the plane of the pencil which do not lie on the multiple secant . 
The multiple secants , of course , are exceptional and in each case are transformed into cones of order Af . 
Observations similar to these can be made at each point of Aj . 
Hence **zg must have either a regulus of Af-fold secants or a regulus of Af-fold secants . 
Moreover , if Af , no two of the multiple secants can intersect . 
For if such were the case , either the plane of the two lines would meet **zg in more than K points or , alternatively , the order of the image regulus of the pencil determined by the two lines would be too high . 
But if no two lines of the regulus of multiple secants of **zg can intersect , then the regulus must be quadratic , or in other words , **zg must be either a Af or a Af curve on a nonsingular quadric surface . 
We now observe that the case in which **zg is a Af curve on a quadric is impossible if the complex of singular lines consists exclusively of the lines which meet Aj . 
For any pencil in a plane containing a Af-fold secant of **zg has an image regulus which meets the plane of the pencil in Af lines , namely the images of the lines of the pencil which pass through the intersection of **zg and the multiple secant , plus an additional component to account for the intersections of the images of the general lines of the pencil . 
However , if there is no additional complex of singular lines , the order of the image regulus of a pencil is precisely Af . 
This contradicts the preceding observations , and so , under the assumption of this paper , we must reject the possibility that **zg is a Af curve on a quadric surface . 
Continuing with the case in which **zg is a Af curve on a quadric Q , we first observe that the second regulus of Q consists precisely of the lines which join the two free intersections of **zg and the planes through any one of the multiple secants . 
For each of these lines meets Q in three points , namely two points on **zg and one point on one of the multiple secants . 
Now consider an arbitrary line , l , meeting Q in two points , Af and Af . 
If **ya is the multiple secant of **zg which passes through Af and **yb is the simple secant of **zg which passes through Af , and if Af are the points in which **ya meets **zg , and if Af is the image of Af on the generator **yb , it follows that the image of the line Af is Af . 
These societies can expect to face difficult times . 
As the historic processes of modernization gradually gain momentum , their cohesion will be threatened by divisive forces , the gaps between rulers and subjects , town and country , will widen ; ; new aspirants for power will emerge whose ambitions far exceed their competence ; ; old rulers may lose their nerve and their sense of direction . 
National leaders will have to display the highest skills of statesmanship to guide their people through times of uncertainty and confusion which destroy men's sense of identity . 
Feelings of a community of interest will have to be recreated -- in some of the new nations , indeed , they must be built for the first time -- on a new basis which looks toward the future and does not rely only on shared memories of the past . 
Nevertheless , with foresight and careful planning , some of the more disruptive and dangerous consequences of social change which have troubled other countries passing through this stage can be escaped . 
The United States can help by communicating a genuine concern with the problems these countries face and a readiness to provide technical and other appropriate forms of assistance where possible . 
Our central goal should be to provide the greatest positive incentive for these societies to tackle boldly the tasks which they face . 
At the same time , we should recognize that the obstacles to change and the lack of cohesion and stability which characterize these countries may make them particularly prone to diversions and external adventures of all sorts . 
It may seem to some of them that success can be purchased much less dearly by fishing in the murky waters of international politics than by facing up to the intractable tasks at home . 
We should do what we can to discourage this conclusion , both by offering assistance for their domestic needs and by reacting firmly to irresponsible actions on the world scene . 
When necessary , we should make it clear that countries which choose to derive marginal advantages from the cold war or to exploit their potential for disrupting the security of the world will not only lose our sympathy but also risk their own prospects for orderly development . 
As a nation , we feel an obligation to assist other countries in their development ; ; but this obligation pertains only to countries which are honestly seeking to become responsible members of a stable and forward-moving world community . 
Transitional societies When we look at countries like Iran , Iraq , Pakistan , and Burma , where substantial progress has been made in creating a minimum supply of modern men and of social overhead capital , and where institutions of centralized government exist , we find a second category of countries with a different set of problems and hence different priorities for policy . 
The men in power are committed in principle to modernization , but economic and social changes are proceeding only erratically . 
Isolated enterprises have been launched , but they are not yet related to each other in a meaningful pattern . 
The society is likely to be characterized by having a fairly modernized urban sector and a relatively untouched rural sector , with very poor communications between the two . 
Progress is impeded by psychological inhibitions to effective action among those in power and by a failure on their part to understand how local resources , human and material , can be mobilized to achieve the national goals of modernization already symbolically accepted . 
Most countries in this second category share the difficulty of having many of the structures of a modern political and social system without the modern standards of performance required to make them effective . 
In these rapidly changing societies there is also too little appreciation of the need for effort to achieve goals . 
The colonial period has generally left people believing that government can , if it wishes , provide all manner of services for them -- and that with independence free men do not have to work to realize the benefits of modern life . 
For example , in accordance with the fashion of the times , most transitional societies have announced economic development plans of varying numbers of years ; ; such is the mystique of planning that people expect that fulfillment of the plan will follow automatically upon its announcement . 
The civil services in such societies are generally inadequate to deal competently with the problems facing them ; ; and their members often equate a government career with security and status rather than with sacrifice , self-discipline , and competence . 
American policy should press constantly the view that until these governments demand efficiency and effectiveness of their bureaucracies there is not the slightest hope that they will either modernize of democratize their societies . 
We should spread the view that planning and national development are serious matters which call for effort as well as enthusiasm . 
Above all , we should seek to encourage the leaders of these societies to accept the unpleasant fact that they are responsible for their fates . 
Only within the framework of a mature relationship characterized by honest appraisals of performance can we provide telling assistance . 
With respect to those countries whose leaders prefer to live with their illusions , we can afford to wait , for in time their comparative lack of progress will become clear for all to see . 
Our technical assistance to these countries should place special emphasis on inducing the central governments to assume the role of advisor and guide which at an earlier stage foreign experts assumed in dealing with the central governments . 
We should encourage the governments to develop their own technical assistance to communities , state and provincial governments , rural communities , and other smaller groups , making certain that no important segment of the economy is neglected . 
Simultaneously we should be underlining the interrelationships of technical progress in various fields , showing how agricultural training can be introduced into education , how health affects labor productivity , how small business can benefit the rural farm community , and , above all , how progress in each field relates to national progress . 
Efforts such as the Community Development Program in the Philippines have demonstrated that transitional societies can work toward balanced national development . 
To achieve this goal of balanced development , communications between the central government and the local communities must be such that the needs and aspirations of the people themselves are effectively taken into account . 
If modernization programs are imposed from above , without the understanding and cooperation of the people , they will encounter grave difficulties . 
Land reform is likely to be a pressing issue in many of these countries . 
It should be American policy not only to encourage effective land reform programs but also to underline the relation of such reforms to the economic growth and modernization of the society . 
As an isolated policy , land reform is likely to be politically disruptive ; ; as part of a larger development effort , however , it may gain wide acceptance . 
It should also be recognized that the problem of rural tenancy cannot be solved by administrative decrees alone . 
Land reform programs need to be supplemented with programs for promoting rural credits and technical assistance in agriculture . 
Lastly , governmental and private planners will at this stage begin to see large capital requirements looming ahead . 
By holding out prospects for external capital assistance , the United States can provide strong incentives to prepare for the concerted economic drive necessary to achieve self-sustaining growth . 
Actively modernizing societies At a third stage in the modernization process are such countries as India , Brazil , the Philippines , and Taiwan , which are ready and committed to move into the stage of self-sustaining growth . 
They must continue to satisfy basic capital needs ; ; and there persists the dual problem of maintaining operational unity around a national program of modernization while simultaneously decentralizing participation in the program to wider and wider groups . 
But these countries have made big strides toward developing the necessary human and social overhead capital ; ; they have established reasonably stable and effective governmental institutions at national and local levels ; ; and they have begun to develop a capacity to deal realistically and simultaneously with all the major sectors of their economies . 
On the economic front , the first priority of these countries is to mobilize a vastly increased volume of resources . 
Several related tasks must be carried out if self-sustaining growth is to be achieved . 
These countries must formulate a comprehensive , long-term program covering the objectives of both the private and the public sectors of the economy . 
They must in their planning be able to count on at least tentative commitments of foreign capital assistance over periods of several years . 
Capital imports drawn from a number of sources must be employed and combined skillfully enough to permit domestic investment programming to go forward . 
Capital flows must be coordinated with national needs and planning . 
Finally , a balance must be effected among project finance , utilization of agricultural surpluses , and general balance of payments support . 
Thus , although the agenda of external assistance in the economic sphere are cumulative , and many of the policies suggested for nations in the earlier stages remain relevant , the basic purpose of American economic policy during the later stages of development should be to assure that movement into a stage of self-sustaining growth is not prevented by lack of foreign exchange . 
There remain many political and administrative problems to be solved . 
For one thing , although considerable numbers of men have been trained , bureaucracies are still deficient in many respects ; ; even the famed Indian Civil Service is not fully adequate to the tremendous range of tasks it has undertaken . 
Technical assistance in training middle- and upper-level management personnel is still needed in many cases . 
There are also more basic problems . 
This is the stage at which democratic developments must take place if the society is to become an open community of creative people . 
Nevertheless , impulses still exist among the ruling elite to rationalize and thus to perpetuate the need for centralized and authoritarian practices . 
Another great danger is that the emerging middle class will feel itself increasingly alienated from the political leaders who still justify their dominance by reference to the struggle for independence or the early phase of nationalism . 
The capacity of intellectuals and members of the new professional classes to contribute creatively to national development is likely to be destroyed by a constraining sense of inferiority toward both their own political class and their colleagues and professional counterparts in the West . 
Particularly when based upon a single dominant party , governments may respond to such a situation by claiming a monopoly of understanding about the national interest . 
Convinced of the wisdom of their own actions , and reassured by the promises of their economic development programs , governments may fail to push outward to win more and more people to the national effort , becoming instead more rigid and inflexible in their policies . 
American policy toward such societies should stress our sympathy for the emerging social and professional classes . 
It should attempt to communicate both an appreciation of professional standards and an understanding of the tremendous powers and potentialities of genuinely open and pluralistic societies . 
We have every obligation to take seriously their claims to being democratic and free countries ; ; we also have , in consequence , the duty to appraise realistically and honestly their performance and to communicate our judgments to their leaders in frank but friendly ways . 
The time factor We have emphasized that the modernizing process in each society will take a considerable period of time . 
With the exception of treaty-making , foreign relations were historically concerned for the most part with conditions of short or at least measurable duration . 
Foreign policy now takes on a different perspective and must become skilled not merely at response but also at projection . 
American and free-world policies can marginally affect the pace of transition ; ; but basically that pace depends on changes in the supply of resources and in the human attitudes , political institutions , and social structure which each society must generate . 
It follows that any effective policy toward the underdeveloped countries must have a realistically long working horizon . 
It must be marked by a patience and persistence which have not always been its trademark . 
This condition affects not only the conception but also the legislative and financial support of foreign policy , especially in the context of economic aid . 
2 : : Some of the major functions of religion The place of religion in the simple , preliterate societies is quite definite ; ; as a complex it fits into the whole social organization and functions dominantly in every part of it . 
In societies like ours , however , its place is less clear and more complex . 
With the diversity of religious viewpoints , there are differences of opinion as to the essential features of religion ; ; and there are different opinions as to the essential functions of religion . 
Nevertheless , for most of the population of heterogeneous advanced societies , though less for the less religious portion , religion does perform certain modal individual and social functions . 
Although the inner functions of religion are not of direct significance in social organization , they have important indirect consequences . 
If the inner functions of religion are performed , the individual is a composed , ordered , motivated , and emotionally secure associate ; ; he is not greatly frustrated , and he is not anomic ; ; he is better fitted to perform his social life among his fellows . 
There are several closely related inner functions . 
In the last analysis , religion is the means of inducing , formulating , expressing , enhancing , implementing , and perpetuating man's deepest experience -- the religious . 
Man is first religious ; ; the instrumentalities follow . 
Religion seeks to satisfy human needs of great pertinence . 
The significant things in it , at the higher religious levels , are the inner emotional , mental , and spiritual occurrences that fill the pressing human needs of self-preservation , self-pacification , and self-completion . 
The chief experience is the sensing of communion , and in the higher religions , of a harmonious relationship with the supernatural power . 
Related to this is the fact that most of the higher religions define for the individual his place in the universe and give him a feeling that he is relatively secure in an ordered , dependable universe . 
Man has the experience of being helpfully allied with what he cannot fully understand ; ; he is a coordinate part of all of the mysterious energy and being and movement . 
The universe is a safe and permanent home . 
A number of religions also satisfy for many the need of being linked with the ultimate and eternal . 
Death is not permanent defeat and disappearance ; ; man has a second chance . 
He is not lost in the abyss of endless time ; ; he has endless being . 
Religion at its best also offers the experience of spiritual fulfillment by inviting man into the highest realm of the spirit . 
Religion can summate , epitomize , relate , and conserve all the highest ideals and values -- ethical , aesthetic , and religious -- of man formed in his culture . 
There is also the possibility , among higher religions , of experiencing consistent meaning in life and enjoying guidance and expansiveness . 
The kind of religious experience that most moderns seek not only provides , clarifies , and relates human yearnings , values , ideals , and purposes ; ; it also provides facilities and incitements for the development of personality , sociality , and creativeness . 
Under the religious impulse , whether theistic or humanistic , men have joy in living ; ; life leads somewhere . 
Religion at its best is out in front , ever beckoning and leading on , and , as Lippman put it , `` mobilizing all man's scattered energies in one triumphant sense of his own infinite importance '' . 
At the same time that religion binds the individual helpfully to the supernatural and gives him cosmic peace and a sense of supreme fulfillment , it also has great therapeutic value for him . 
It gives him aid , comfort , even solace , in meeting mundane life situations where his own unassisted practical knowledge and skill are felt by him to be inadequate . 
He is confronted with the recurrent crises , such as great natural catastrophes and the great transitions of life -- marriage , incurable disease , widowhood , old age , the certainty of death . 
He has to cope with frustration and other emotional disturbance and anomie . 
His religious beliefs provide him with plausible explanations for many conditions which cause him great concern , and his religious faith makes possible fortitude , equanimity , and consolation , enabling him to endure colossal misfortune , fear , frustration , uncertainty , suffering , evil , and danger . 
Religion usually also includes a principle of compensation , mainly in a promised perfect future state . 
The belief in immortality , where held , functions as a redress for the ills and disappointments of the here and now . 
The tensions accompanying a repressive consciousness of wrongdoing or sinning or some tormenting secret are relieved for the less self-contained or self-sufficient by confession , repentance , and penance . 
The feeling of individual inferiority , defeat , or humilation growing out of various social situations or individual deficiencies or failures is compensated for by communion in worship or prayer with a friendly , but all-victorious Father-God , as well as by sympathetic fellowship with others who share this faith , and by opportunities in religious acts for giving vent to emotions and energies . 
In providing for these inner individual functions , religion undertakes in behalf of individual peace of mind and well-being services for which there is no other institution . 
In addition to the functions of religion within man , there have always been the outer social functions for the community and society . 
The two have never been separable . 
Religion is vitally necessary in both societal maintenance and regulation . 
The value-system of a community or society is always correlated with , and to a degree dependent upon , a more or less shared system of religious beliefs and convictions . 
The religion supports , re-enforces , reaffirms , and maintains the fundamental values . 
Even in the United States , with its freedom of religious belief and worship and its vast denominational differentiation , there is a general consensus regarding the basic Christian values . 
This is demonstrated especially when there is awareness of radically different value orientation elsewhere ; ; for example Americans rally to Christian values vis-a-vis those of atheistic communism . 
In America also all of our major religious bodies officially sanction a universalistic ethic which is reflective of our common religion . 
Even the non-church members -- the freewheelers , marginal religionists and so on -- have the values of Christian civilization internalized in them . 
Furthermore , religion tends to integrate the whole range of values from the highest or ultimate values of God to the intermediary and subordinate values ; ; for example , those regarding material objects and pragmatic ends . 
Finally , it gives sanctity , more than human legitimacy , and even , through super-empirical reference , transcendent and supernatural importance to some values ; ; for example , marriage as a sacrament , much law-breaking as sinful , occasionally the state as a divine instrument . 
It places certain values at least beyond questioning and tampering . 
Closely related to this function is the fact that the religious system provides a body of ultimate ends for the society , which are compatible with the supreme eternal ends . 
This something leads to a conception of an over-all Social Plan with a meaning interpretable in terms of ultimate ends ; ; for example , a plan that fulfills the will of God , which advances the Kingdom of God , which involves social life as part of the Grand Design . 
This explains some group ends and provides a justification of their primacy . 
It gives social guidance and direction and makes for programs of social action . 
Finally , it gives meaning to much social endeavor , and logic , consistency , and meaning to life . 
In general , there is no society so secularized as to be completely without religiously inspired transcendental ends . 
Religion integrates and unifies . 
Some of the oldest , most persistent , and most cohesive forms of social groupings have grown out of religion . 
These groups have varied widely from mere families , primitive , totemic groups , and small modern cults and sects , to the memberships of great denominations , and great , widely dispersed world religions . 
Religion fosters group life in various ways . 
The common ultimate values , ends and goals fostered by religion are a most important factor . 
Without a system of values there can be no society . 
Where such a value system prevails , it always unifies all who possess it ; ; it enables members of the society to operate as a system . 
The beliefs of a religion also reflecting the values are expressed in creeds , dogmas , and doctrines , and form what Durkheim calls a credo . 
As he points out , a religious group cannot exist without a collective credo , and the more extensive the credo , the more unified and strong is the group . 
The credo unifies and socializes men by attaching them completely to an identical body of doctrine ; ; the more extensive and firm the body of doctrine , the firmer the group . 
The religious symbolism , and especially the closely related rites and worship forms , constitute a powerful bond for the members of the particular faith . 
The religion , in fact , is an expression of the unity of the group , small or large . 
The common codes , for religious action as such and in their ethical aspects for everyday moral behavior , bind the devotees together . 
These are ways of jointly participating in significantly symbolized , standardized , and ordered religiously sanctified behavior . 
The codes are mechanism for training in , and directing and enforcing , uniform social interaction , and for continually and publicly reasserting the solidarity of the group . 
Durkheim noted long ago that religion as `` a unified system of beliefs and practices relative to sacred things unites into one single moral community all those who adhere to them '' . 
His view is that every religion pertains to a community , and , conversely , every community is in one aspect a religious unit . 
This is brought out in the common religious ethos that prevails even in the denominationally diverse audiences at many secular semi-public and public occasions in the United States ; ; and it is evidenced in the prayers offered , in the frequent religious allusions , and in the confirmation of points on religious grounds . 
The unifying effect of religion is also brought out in the fact that historically peoples have clung together as more or less cohesive cultural units , with religion as the dominant bond , even though spatially dispersed and not politically organized . 
The Jews for 2500 years have been a prime example , though the adherents of any world or interpeople religion are cases in point . 
It might be pointed out that the integrating function of religion , for good or ill , has often supported or been identified with other groupings -- political , nationality , language , class , racial , sociability , even economic . 
Religion usually exercises a stabilizing-conserving function . 
As such it acts as an anchor for the people . 
There is a marked tendency for religions , once firmly established , to resist change , not only in their own doctrines and policies and practices , but also in secular affairs having religious relevance . 
It has thus been a significant factor in the conservation of social values , though also in some measure , an obstacle to the creation or diffusion of new ones . 
It tends to support the longstanding precious sentiments , the traditional ways of thinking , and the customary ways of living . 
As Yinger has pointed out , the `` reliance on symbols , on tradition , on sacred writings , on the cultivation of emotional feelings of identity and harmony with sacred values , turns one to the past far more than to the future '' . 
Historically , religion has also functioned as a tremendous engine of vindication , enforcement , sanction , and perpetuation of various other institutions . 
At the same time that religion exercises a conserving influence , it also energizes and motivates both individuals and groups . 
Much of the important individual and social action has been owing to religious incentives . 
The great ultimate ends of religion have served as magnificent beacon lights that lured people toward them with an almost irresistible force , mobilizing energies and inducing sacrifices ; ; for example , the Crusades , mission efforts , just wars . 
Much effort has been expended in the sincere effort to apply the teaching and admonitions of religion . 
The insuperable reward systems that most religions embody have great motivating effects . 
Religion provides the most attractive rewards , either in this world or the next , for those who not merely abide by its norms , but who engage in good works . 
Religion usually acts as a powerful aid in social control , enforcing what men should or should not do . 
Among primitive peoples the sanctions and dictates of religion were more binding than any of the other controls exercised by the group ; ; and in modern societies such influence is still great . 
Religion has its own supernatural prescriptions that are at the same time codes of behavior for the here and now . 
Overwhelmed with the care of five young children and concerned about persistent economic difficulties due to her husband's marginal income , her defense of denial was excessively strong . 
Thus the lack of effective recognition of the responsibilities involved in caring for two babies showed signs of becoming a disabling problem . 
The result , dramatically visible in a matter of days in the family's disrupted daily functioning , was a phobic-like fear that some terrible harm would befall the second twin , whose birth had not been anticipated . 
Soon Mrs. B.'s fears threatened to burst into a full-blown panic concerning the welfare of the entire family . 
Inability to care for the other children , difficulty in feeding the babies , who seemed colicky , bone-weary fatigue , repeated crying episodes , and short tempers reflected the family's helplessness in coping with the stressful situation . 
Clearly , this was a family in crisis . 
Mrs. B. compared her feelings of weakness to her feelings of weakness and helplessness at the time of her mother's death when she was eight , as well as her subsequent anger at her father for remarrying . 
Her previous traumatic experiences flashed through her mind as if they had happened yesterday . 
On the anniversary of her father's death she poured out with agonized tears her feelings of guilt about not having attended his funeral . 
In the family's own words ( during the third of twelve visits ) , they had `` reached the crisis peak -- either the situation will give or we will break '' ! 
Direct confrontation and acceptance of Mrs. B.'s anger against the second baby soon dissipated her fears of annihilation . 
Abreaction of her anxiety and guilt concerning the death of her parents , when linked up with her current feelings of anger and her fears of loss , abandonment , and annihilation , produced further relief of tension . 
In a joint interview Mr. and Mrs. B. were helped to understand the meaning of a younger son's wandering away from home in terms of his feelings of displacement in reaction to the arrival of the twins . 
The father , accurately perceiving the child's needs , not only respected them as worthy of his attention , but immediately satisfied them by taking him on his lap along with the twins , saying , `` I have a big lap ; ; there is room for you , too , Johnnie '' . 
Simultaneously , a variety of environmental supports -- a calm but not too motherly homemaker , referral for temporary economic aid , intelligent use of nursing care , accompaniment to the well-baby clinic for medical advice on the twins' feeding problem -- combined to prevent further development of predictable pathological mechanisms . 
Follow-up visits of the nurse and social worker indicated continued success in the care of the new babies as well as a marked improvement in the family's day-to-day mental health and social functioning . 
As seen in the B. family , there must be an attempt to help the client develop conscious awareness of the problem , especially in the absence of a formal request for assistance . 
The lack of awareness usually springs from deep but disguised anxiety , often assuming the superficial guise of `` not knowing '' or `` not caring '' . 
The unhealthy use of denial in the initial reaction to a stress must be handled through the medium of a positive controlled transference . 
In general , the approach is more active than passive , more out-reaching than reflective . 
While some regression is inevitable , it is discouraged rather than encouraged so that the transference does not follow the stages of planned regression associated with certain casework adaptations of the psychoanalytic model for insight therapy . 
To establish an emotionally meaningful relationship the worker must demonstrate actual or potential helpfulness immediately , preferably within the first interview , by meeting the client's specific needs . 
These needs usually concern the reduction of guilt and some relief of tension . 
The initial interview must be therapeutic rather than purely exploratory in an information-seeking sense . 
In this relationship-building stage the worker must communicate confidence in the client's ability to deal with the problem . 
In so doing he implicitly offers the positive contagion of hope as a kind of maturational dynamic to counteract feelings of helplessness and hopelessness generally associated with the first stages of stress impact . 
Thus , the client receives enough ego support to engage in constructive efforts on his own behalf . 
Here there is a specific preventive component which applies in a more generalized sense to any casework situation . 
We are preventing or averting pathogenic phenomena such as undue regression , unhealthy suppression and repression , excessive use of denial , and crippling guilt turned against the self . 
While some suppression and some denial are not only necessary but healthy , the worker's clinical knowledge must determine how these defenses are being used , what healthy shifts in defensive adaptation are indicated , and when efforts at bringing about change can be most effectively timed . 
In steering the family toward ego-adaptive and away from maladaptive responses , the worker uses time-honored focused casework techniques of specific emotional support , clarification , and anticipatory guidance . 
Over a relatively short period of time , usually about four to twelve weeks , the worker must be able to shift the focus , back and forth , between immediate external stressful exigencies ( `` precipitating stress '' ) and the key , emotionally relevant issues ( `` underlying problem '' ) which are , often in a dramatic preconscious breakthrough , reactivated by the crisis situation , and hence once again amenable to resolution . 
Though there is obviously nothing new about these techniques , they do challenge the worker's skill to articulate them precisely on the spot and on the basis of quick and accurate diagnostic assessments . 
Then , too , the utmost clinical flexibility is necessary in judiciously combining carefully timed family-oriented home visits , single and group office interviews , and appropriate telephone follow-up calls , if the worker is to be genuinely accessible and if the predicted unhealthy outcome is to be actually averted in accordance with the principles of preventive intervention . 
In addition , in many cases , a variety of concrete social resources -- homemaker , day care , medical and financial aid -- must be reasonably available for the reality support needed to bolster the family in its individual and collective coping and integrative efforts . 
At certain critical stages , and only for sound diagnostic reasons , it may be important to accompany family members in their use of these resources if their problem-solving behavior is to be constructive rather than defeating . 
While expensive in time and involving a great deal of adaptation on the part of the worker ( in terms of his willingness to leave the sanctity of his office and enter actively into the client's life ) , techniques of accompaniment were found to be of tremendous value when in the service of specific preventive objectives . 
Finally , whatever the techniques used , a twin goal is common to all preventive casework service : to cushion or reduce the force of the stress impact while at the same time to encourage and support family members to mobilize and use their ego capacities . 
Having outlined an approach to the theory and practice of preventive casework , we now address ourselves to our final question : What place should brief , crisis-oriented preventive casework occupy in our total spectrum of services ? 
We should first recognize our tendency to develop a hierarchy of values , locating brief treatment at the bottom and long-term intensive service at the top , instead of seeing the services as part of a continuum , each important in its own right . 
This problem is perhaps as old as social casework itself . 
Almost three decades ago Bertha Reynolds undertook a study of short-contact interviewing because of her conviction that short-term casework had an important but neglected place in our network of social services . 
Her conclusion has been borne out in the experience of many practitioners : `` short-contact interviewing is neither a truncated nor a telescoped experience but is of the same essential quality as the so-called intensive case work '' . 
Thus , casework involving a limited number of interviews is still to be regarded in terms of the quality of service rendered rather than of the quantity of time expended . 
That we are experiencing an upsurge of interest in the many formulations and preventive adaptations of brief treatment in social casework is evident from even a small sampling of current literature . 
Especially noteworthy is Levinger's finding that the length of treatment per se is not a reliable indicator of successful outcome . 
According to a number of studies , the important predictors are the nature and management of the client's anxiety as well as the accessibility of the helping person . 
For example , the level of improvement noted in a recent experiment with a short course of immediate treatment for parent-child relationship problems compared favorably with the results reported by typical child guidance clinics where the hours spent in purely diagnostic study may equal or exceed the number of hours devoted to actual treatment interviews in the experimental project . 
Of startling significance , too , is the assertion that it was possible to carry out this program with only a 6 percent attrition rate as compared with a rate of 59 percent reported for a comparable group of families who were receiving help in traditionally operated child guidance services . 
These reports refer to a level of secondary prevention in a child guidance clinic approached by the customary route of voluntary referral by the family or by other professional people . 
Similarities to the approach which I have described are evident in the prompt establishment of a helping relationship , quick appraisal of key issues , and the immediate mobilization of treatment plans as the essential dynamics in helping to further the ego's coping efforts in dealing with the interplay of inner and outer stresses . 
While there are many different possibilities for the timing of casework intervention , the experiments recently reported from a variety of traditional settings all point up the importance of an immediate response to the client's initial need for help . 
In some programs , treatment is concentrated over a short period of time , while in others , after the initial contact is established , flexible spacing of interviews has been experimentally used with apparent success . 
Willingness to take the risk of early and direct interpretation ( with the proviso that if the interpretation is too threatening , the worker can withdraw ) is another prominent feature in these efforts . 
My aim in mentioning this factor obviously is not to give license to `` wild therapy '' but rather to encourage us to use the time-honored clinical casework skills we already possess , and to use them with greater confidence , precision , and professional pride . 
Though there is obviously great need for continued experimentation with various types of short-term intervention to further efforts in developing an operational definition of prevention at the secondary -- or perhaps , in some instances , primary -- level , the place of short-term intervention has already been documented by a number of investigators in a wide variety of settings . 
Woodward , for example , has emphasized the `` need for a broad spectrum of services , including very brief services in connection with critical situations '' . 
Ideally , brief treatment should be arrived at as a treatment of choice rather than as a treatment of chance . 
Moreover , the shortage of treatment resources and the chronically persistent shortage of mental health manpower force us to innovate additional refinements of preventive intervention techniques to make services more widely available -- and on a more effective basis to more people . 
Further research in the meaning of crises as experienced by the consumers of traditional social casework services -- including attempts to develop a typology of family structures , crisis problems , reaction mechanisms , and differential treatment approaches -- and the establishment of new experimental programs are imperative social needs which should command the best efforts of caseworkers in collaboration with community planners . 
Our literature is already replete with a fantastic number of suggestions for preventive agency programming ranging from the immediately practical to the globally utopian . 
Probably , in the immediate future , we will have to settle for middle-range efforts that fall short of utopian models . 
Increased experimentation with multipurpose agencies , especially those that combine afresh the traditional functions of family and child welfare services , holds rich promise for the future . 
For example , child welfare experience abounds with cases in which the parental request for substitute care is precipitated by a crisis event which is meaningfully linked with a fundamental unresolved problem of family relationships . 
Sentiment . 
Tension management and communication of sentiment are the processes involved in the functioning of the element of sentiment or feeling . 
One of the devices for tension management is preferential mating . 
The preferential mating of this particular population has been analyzed in a separate study . 
The relative geographical isolation of the Brandywine population makes for a limited choice in mating . 
It would seem necessary that members of this population provide support for one another since it is not provided by the larger society . 
The supportive relations can apparently be achieved in geographical and social isolation . 
The newlyweds building homes on the same land with either set of parents , and the almost exclusive use of members of the population as sponsors for baptisms and weddings illustrate this supportive relationship . 
As Loomis remarks , `` In the internal pattern the chief reason for interacting is to communicate liking , friendship , and love among those who stand in supporting relations to one another and corresponding negative sentiments to those who stand in antagonistic relations '' . 
Achieving . 
Maintenance of the status quo might seem to be the appropriate goal or objective of this population today . 
Yet , the object of the element of achieving through the process of goal attaining for this population appears to have been changed by circumstances brought about by the war . 
Prior to World War 2 , there was a higher percentage of endogamous marriages than after World War 2 . 
Norms . 
The norms , as elements , refer to `` all criteria for judging the character or conduct of both individual and group actions in any social system '' . 
The process of evaluation assigns varying positive and negative priorities or values to elements . 
The elements and processes become evident in a study of mate selection in this population . 
From the evidence `` it may be conjectured that core - core marriages are the preferred unions for core males and females ; ; core - marginal marriages still belong in the category of permissive unions ; ; and core - Negro marriages are proscribed for core members '' . 
Status-roles . 
The element of status-roles and associated processes have not been sufficiently investigated for this population to permit any type of conjectures about them . 
Power . 
There is some indication from a limited number of interviews with members of the population that the element of power , primarily the voluntary influence of non-authoritative power , has been exerted on actors in the system , particularly in regard to mate selection . 
This would seem to vary from family to family , depending somewhat on the core or marginal `` status '' of that family . 
Again , size of the group may have some influence on the strength of group controls . 
Ranking . 
Interviews with members of the Brandywine population were attempted in order to discover the ranking of the various families in the population . 
The large majority of the interviewees placed core families in the upper positions . 
Loomis considers ranking a product of the evaluation process . 
`` The standing or rank of an actor in a given social system is determined by the evaluation placed upon the actor and his acts in accordance with the norms and standards of the system '' . 
Despite the increasing rate of exogamous marriages , the population has been able to sustain , at least to some degree , the consciousness of its intermediate status in society . 
To some extent the system can be considered a Gemeinschaft in which `` social-role occupancies are determined by birth , by attributes such as sex or caste , which are biologically or socially immutable '' . 
The adherence of many in the population to the Indian background in their pedigree , and emphasis upon the fact that their ancestors had never been slaves , becomes of prime interest in determining how far these elements promote the self-image of the intermediate status of the group in society . 
Sanctions . 
The negative sanctions applied to core - Negro marriages for core members act as indicators of expected adherence to group norms . 
However , because of Church laws , lately more stringently enforced , which forbid the marriage of cousins closely related consanguineously , a means of facilitating the goal of in-group relations may be that of recourse to illegitimate unions . 
A cursory survey of available material indicates a high rate of illegitimate births occurring to parents who have a close consanguineous relationship . 
Subsystems The comprehensive or master processes activate all or some of the elements within the social system and subsystems . 
Within the larger social system are the structural and functional subsystems . 
The structural subsystem , consisting of relatively stable inter-relationships among its parts , includes : 1 . 
Subgroups of various types , interconnected by relational norms . 
2 . 
Roles of various types , within the larger system and within the subgroups 3 . 
Regulative norms governing subgroups and roles . 
4 . 
Cultural values . 
In the study of marriage patterns for this group , consanguinity produces the structural system -- a system of affinities -- which , in turn , maintains the system of consanguinity . 
Subgroups of various types have been found within this system . 
Each family line can be considered a substructure . 
There seems to be an implied cultural value attached to the fact of core status within the group . 
Additionally , the proscription of core - Negro marriages for core families , discussed above , would seem to act as a regulative norm governing subgroups and roles . 
The scope of this study does not provide for the study of roles of various types within the larger system or within the subgroups . 
However , it cannot be presumed , informal though the structure of the population seems , that there are not well-defined roles within the system . 
The present study relates to the theory of functional systems . 
It is hypothesized that fertility is a function of the social system when the population as a whole is considered and a function of the subsystems when the two-fold division of core families and marginal families is considered . 
The four functional problems of a social system are , to some extent , solved by the subsystems within this population . 
By means of geographical isolation and high fertility rates , inbreeding can be fostered and the pattern of isolation from the greater society maintained . 
In order to attain the goal of group solidarity and to relieve tension , the high fertility rate provides more group members for mate selection , and the clustering of members in groups fosters acceptance of group controls . 
To maintain their intermediate position in the larger society , it is not only necessary that members of this population be `` visible '' , but that their numbers be great enough to be recognized as a separate , distinct grouping or system in society . 
As mentioned above , where families are concentrated in larger numbers , group controls seem strongest and most effective . 
Adaptation to the social and non-social environment through the economy has been met to a degree through a type of occupational segregation . 
This provides the necessary contact with the larger society , while supporting a type of control over members in terms of social contacts . 
Integration `` has to do with the inter-relation of parts '' . 
The problem of solidarity and morale again involves the concept of values . 
The values placed by the Brandywine population , upon maintaining a certain homogeneity , a certain separate racial identity , and therefore a certain separate social status , are important for the morale of the system . 
Since morale is closely related to pattern maintenance and integration , the higher the morale and solidarity , the better the system can solve the problems of the system . 
In this respect it would seem that the greater the social distance between the Brandywine population and the white and Negro populations within the same general locality , the greater the possibility for higher morale and solidarity within the Brandywine population . 
It is conceived that one of the means to attain this social distance is that of physical and social isolation . 
In turn , higher fertility rates for this population provide a means of increasing the numerical quantity of the population , allowing for the possibility of greater stability and unity . 
The population can thereby replenish itself and actually grow larger . 
Master processes Of particular utility in the analysis of the development , persistence , and change of social systems has been the use of the master or comprehensive processes . 
Loomis considers six such processes in his paradigm . 
1 . 
Communication 2 . 
Boundary maintenance 3 . 
Systemic linkage 4 . 
Socialization 5 . 
Social control 6 . 
Institutionalization Though undoubtedly all six processes are operative within the whole social system and its subsystems , two processes that are of crucial importance to this study will be singled out for particular emphasis . 
Communication . 
In discussing the process of communication , Loomis defines it as `` the process by which information , decisions , and directives are transmitted among actors and the ways in which knowledge , opinions , and attitudes are formed , or modified by interaction '' . 
Communication may be facilitated by means of the high visibility within the larger community . 
Intense interaction is easier where segregated living and occupational segregation mark off a group from the rest of the community , as in the case of this population . 
However , the factor of physical isolation is not a static situation . 
Although the Brandywine population is still predominantly rural , `` there are indications of a consistent and a statistically significant trend away from the older and relatively isolated rural communities . 
Urbanization appears to be an important factor in the disintegration of this group . 
This conclusion is , however , an over-simplification . 
A more realistic analysis must take into account the fact that Brandywine people in the urban-fringe area are , in general , less segregated locally than group members in rural areas . 
In the urban area , in other words , they , unlike some urban ethnic groups , do not concentrate in ghetto colonies . 
Group pressures toward conformity are slight or non-existent , and deviant behavior in mate selection incurs few if any social sanctions . 
In such a setting social contacts and associations are likely to be heterogamous , resulting in a change of values and , almost necessarily , in mate selection behavior . 
To the extent that urban life contributes to the breakdown of the group patterns of residential isolation , to that extent it contributes directly to increased exogamy '' . 
Social control . 
The process of social control is operative insofar as sanctions play a part in the individual's behavior , as well as the group's behavior . 
By means of this social control , deviance is either eliminated or somehow made compatible with the function of the social group . 
Examples from this population indicate that deviance seems to be sanctioned by ostracism from the group . 
Socialization . 
There is an oral tradition among the members of the population in regard to the origin and subsequent separate status of the group in the larger society . 
Confused and divided though this tradition may be , it is an important part of the social and cultural heritage of the group , and acts as a means of socialization , particularly for members of the rural community . 
The fact of Indian ancestry and `` free '' status during the days of slavery , are important distinctions made by members of the group . 
Boundary maintenance . 
`` Culturally induced social cohesion resulting from common norms and values internalized by members of the group '' is operative in the boundary maintenance of the group as well as in the process of socialization . 
The process of boundary maintenance identifies and preserves the social system or subsystems , and the characteristic interaction is maintained . 
As the threat of encroachment on the system increases , the `` probability of applied boundary maintenance mechanisms increases '' . 
The fertility rate pattern would seem to be a function , though a latent one , of the process of maintaining the boundary . 
`` Increased boundary maintenance may be achieved , for example , by assigning a higher primacy or evaluation to activities characteristic of the external pattern . 
'' The external pattern or external system can be considered as `` group behavior that enables the group to survive in its environment . 
'' Boundary maintenance for this group would seem to be primarily social , as is the preference for endogamy . 
It is also expressed in the proscription against deviants in the matter of endogamy , particularly in rural areas . 
By their pattern of endogamy and exogamy , the core families and the marginal families show distinct limits to the intergroup contact they maintain . 
Systemic linkage . 
Where boundary maintenance describes the boundaries or limits of the group , systemic linkage is defined `` as the process whereby one or more of the elements of at least two social systems is articulated in such a manner that the two systems in some ways and on some occasions may be viewed as a single unit . 
A royal decree issued in 1910 , two years after the Belgian government assumed authority for the administration of the Congo , prescribed the registration of all adult males by chiefdoms . 
Further decrees along this line were issued in 1916 and 1919 . 
In 1922 a continuous registration of the whole indigenous population was instituted by ordinance of the Governor-General , and the periodic compilation of these records was ordered . 
But specific procedures for carrying out this plan were left to the discretion of the provincial governors . 
A unified set of regulations , applicable to all areas , was issued in 1929 , and a complementary series of demographic inquiries in selected areas was instituted at the same time . 
The whole system was again reviewed and reorganized in 1933 . 
General responsibility for its administration rested with a division of the colonial government concerned with labor supply and native affairs , Service des Affaires Indigenes et de la Main-d'Oeuvre ( AIMO , Af Direction , Af Direction Generale , Gouvernement Generale ) . 
Tribal authorities , the chiefs and their secretaries , were held responsible for maintaining the registers of indigenous persons within their territories , under the general supervision of district officials . 
The district officials , along with their other duties , were obliged to organize special demographic inquiries in selected areas and to supervise the annual tabulations of demographic statistics . 
The regulations require the inscription of each individual ( male or female , adult or child ) on a separate card ( fiche ) . 
The cards , filed by circonscription ( sub-chiefdom , or village ) , are kept in the headquarters of each territoire ( chiefdom ) . 
Each card is expected to show certain information about the individual concerned , including his or her date of birth ( or age at a specified time ) , spouses , and children . 
Additional entries must be made from time to time . 
Different cards are used for males and females , and a corner is clipped from the cards of adults , and of children when they reach puberty . 
So a quick count could be made at any time , even by an illiterate clerk , of the number of registered persons in four age-and-sex classes . 
Personal identification cards are issued to all adult males on which tax payments , inoculations , periods of employment , and changes of residence are recorded . 
Similar identification cards were issued in 1959 to all adult females . 
Each adult is held personally responsible for assuring his inscription and obtaining an identification card which must be shown on demand . 
The registration card of a person leaving his home territory for a short period is put into a special file for absent persons . 
The cards of permanent out-migrants are , in theory , sent to an office in the place of new residence . 
Finally , the registration of births and deaths by nearest relatives was made compulsory in most regions . 
Numbers of registered persons in four age-and-sex classes were counted each year . 
In addition , demographic inquiries , supposedly involving field investigations , were conducted in selected minor divisions ( circonscriptions ) containing about 3 percent of the total population . 
The results of these inquiries were used to adjust compilations of data from the registers and to provide various ratios and rates by districts , including birth and death rates , general fertility rates , distributions by marital status , fertility of wives separately in polygynous and non-polygynous households , infant mortality , and migration . 
The areas to be examined in these inquiries were selected by local officials , supposedly as representative of a larger population . 
Averages of the ratios obtained in a few selected areas were applied to the larger population . 
The scheme , in theory , is an ingenious adaptation of European registration systems to the conditions of African life . 
But it places a severe strain on the administrative resources ( already burdened in other ways ) of a widely dispersed , poor and largely illiterate population . 
The sampling program was instituted before the principles of probability sampling were widely recognized in population studies . 
The system was not well adapted to conditions of life in urban centers . 
The distinction between domiciled ( de jure ) and present ( de facto ) population was not clearly defined . 
So the results are subject to considerable confusion . 
The system tended to break down during the war , but was reactivated ; ; it had reached the pre-war level of efficiency by 1951 . 
In spite of the defects in this system , the figures on total population during the late 1930's and again in the early 1950's seem to have represented actual conditions in most districts with approximate fidelity . 
But the information on the dynamics of population was often quite misleading . 
The same system , with minor modifications , was developed in Ruanda-Urundi under Belgian administration . 
Here again it seems that useful approximations of the size and geographical distribution of the population were obtained in this way in the late pre-war and early post-war periods . 
Before considering more recent activities , we should note another important aspect of demography in Belgian Africa . 
A number of strong independent agencies , established in some cases with governmental or royal support , have conducted large medical , social , educational and research operations in particular parts of the Congo and Ruanda-Urundi . 
The work of Fonds Reine Elisabeth pour l'Assistance Medicale aux Indigenes Du Congo Belge ( FOREAMI ) has special interest with respect to demography . 
This agency accepted responsibility for medical services to a population ranging from 638,560 persons in 1941 to 840,503 in 1956 in the Kwango District and adjacent areas east of Leopoldville . 
Each year from 1941 on , its medical staff had conducted intensive field investigations to determine changes in population structure and vital rates and , as its primary objective , the incidence of major diseases . 
Its findings are reported each year in its Rapport Sur l'activite Pendant annee ( Bruxelles ) . 
Somewhat similar investigations have been made by medical officers in other areas . 
Other independent , or partially independent agencies , have promoted investigations on topics directly or indirectly related to demography . 
These studies vary widely in scope and precision . 
L'Institut pour La Recherche Scientifique En Afrique Centrale ( IRSAC ) has sponsored well-designed field investigations and has cooperated closely with the government of Ruanda-Urundi in the development of its official statistics . 
A massive investigation of the characteristics of in-migrants and prospective out-migrants in Ruanda-Urundi is being carried on by J. J. Maquet , former Director of the Social Science branch of IRSAC , now a professor at l'Universite Officielle Du Congo Belge et Du Ruanda-Urundi . 
Some 30,000 completed schedules with 20 items ( collected by sub-chiefs in 1,100 circumscriptions ) have been tabulated . 
The results are now being analyzed . 
Statistics have been recognized as a matter of strategic importance in the Congo and in Ruanda-Urundi during the post-war years in connection with long-term economic and social programs . 
The AIMO organizations of both countries , which maintain administrative services throughout the territories , retained immediate responsibility for the collection and publication of demographic information . 
However , the statistical offices of both governments were assigned responsibility for the planning and analysis of these statistics . 
A Bureau De La Demographie ( A. Romaniuk , Director ) was formed under AIMO in the Congo , to work in close rapport with the Section Statistique of the Secretariat General . 
Eventually responsibility for demographic inquiries in the Congo was transferred to the demographic division of the Central Statistical Office . 
The 1952 demographic inquiry in Ruanda-Urundi was directed by V. Neesen , a member of the IRSAC staff , though the inquiry was carried out under the auspices of AIMO , which has continuing responsibility for demographic statistics in this territory . 
A member of the IRSAC staff ( E. Van De Walle ) was recently delegated to cooperate with AIMO in the development of demographic statistics in this territory . 
The initiation of sampling censuses in Ruanda-Urundi ( 1952 ) and in the Congo ( 1955 - 57 ) were major advances . 
We will deal first with the program in the Congo though this was put into operation later than the other . 
The radical nature of the innovation in the Congo was not emphasized in the official announcements . 
The term enquetes demographiques , previously used for the supplementary investigations carried out in connection with the administrative censuses , was used for the new investigations . 
However , the differences in procedure are fundamental . 
These are as follows : ( 1 ) field work procedures . 
Field operations were transferred from administrative personnel primarily engaged in other tasks to specially trained teams of full-time African investigators ( three teams , each working in two provinces ) . 
These teams carried out the same operations successively in different areas . 
( 2 ) nature of the sample . 
Sample areas in the new investigations were selected strictly by application of the principles of probability theory , so as to be representative of the total population of defined areas within calculable limits . 
In short , scientific sampling was introduced in place of subjective sampling . 
The populations of the various districts , or other major divisions , were stratified by type of community ( rural , urban , mixed ) and , where appropriate , by ethnic affiliation and by type of economy . 
Sample units ( villages in rural areas , houses in cities ) were drawn systematically within these strata . 
( 3 ) size of the sample . 
Different sampling ratios were applied under different conditions . 
Higher proportions were sampled in urban and mixed communities than in rural areas . 
About 11 percent of the total population was covered in the new investigation , as compared with about 3 percent in the previous inquiries . 
( 4 ) questions and definitions . 
Uniform questions , definitions , and procedures were enforced throughout the whole country . 
Data were obtained , separately , on three classes of persons : ( A ) residents , present ; ; ( B ) residents , absent ; ; and ( C ) visitors . 
In the reports , summary results are given for both the de facto ( A and C ) and de jure ( A and B ) populations ; ; but the subsequent analysis of characteristics is reported only for the de jure population ( or , in some districts , only the de facto population ) . 
These changes represent , in effect , a shift from ( 1 ) an administrative compilation of data obtained through procedures designed primarily to serve political and economic objectives to ( 2 ) a systematic sampling census of the whole African population . 
The population registration system still has important functions . 
It supplies local data which are useful in administration and which can be used as a basis for intensive studies in particular situations . 
It provides a frame for the sampling census . 
It also provides a frame within which the registration of vital events is gradually gaining force ( though one cannot expect to obtain reliable vital statistics in most parts of the Congo from this source in the near future ) . 
It is still used in making current population estimates in post-census years , though the value of these estimates is open to question . 
Finally , it may have certain very important , less obvious values . 
Even though the registers may have an incomplete record of persons present in a particular area or include persons no longer living there , they contain precise information on ages , by date of birth , for some of the persons present ( especially children in relatively stable communities ) and supplementary information ( such as records of marital status ) for many others . 
The quality of the census data can , therefore , be greatly improved by the use of the registration records in conjunction with the field inquiries . 
Furthermore , it may be possible to estimate the error due to bias in method ( as distinguished from sampling error ) in each of these sources , on such subjects as fertility , mortality , and migration during a given interval by using information from two largely independent sources in conjunction . 
The first sampling census in the Congo extended over a three-year period , 1955 - 57 ; ; the results were still being processed in 1959 . 
It is planned to double the number of teams and to make use of improved equipment in a second demographic inquiry in 1960 , so that the inquiry can be carried through in one year and the results published more expeditiously . 
It is proposed that in the future complete sampling censuses be carried out at five-year intervals . 
Reports already issued on the sampling census , 1955 - 57 , in various areas run as follows ( using only the French and omitting corresponding Flemish titles ) . 
This report contains preliminary notes and 35 tables . 
Other reports in identical form , but with somewhat varying content , have been issued . 
These area reports will be followed , according to present plans , by a summary report , which will include a detailed statement on methods . 
With this evidence in mind , the writer began to plan how he might more effectively educate the married students in his functional classes . 
Toward the end of the semester's work , he interviewed every married class member at great length . 
He found , as he had suspected , a general consensus that perhaps over half of the present functionally designed course was not really functional for these students . 
However , all admitted that the `` hindsight '' was not altogether lost . 
In their own words , it had aided them to get a clearer picture of how they had gotten into their marriages , and perhaps they had obtained some insights on why certain troubles appeared from time to time . 
In fact , they went so far as to caution the writer that if he attempted to design a section exclusively for married students there should be , at the beginning , some `` hindsight '' study ; ; but they all hastened to add that certainly less time was needed on it than presently spent . 
All of them felt a compelling need for more coverage on areas that could be only lightly touched upon in a general survey functional course . 
A few were doubtful about the merits of an exclusive section for married students . 
As one of them expressed it , `` It has done me a world of good to listen to the naive questions and comments of these not-yet-married people . 
I can now better see just what processes provoked certain actions from me in the past . 
Had I been in an all-married section I would have missed this , and I believe that this single aspect has been of great personal value to me '' . 
This comment and others similar to it , would seem to indicate a possible justification for continuing the status quo . 
But the weight of feeling was heavily in the opposite direction . 
Thus , the writer decided to hold one experimental section of the functional preparation for marriage course in the spring semester of 1960 exclusively for persons already married -- that is , prerequisite : `` marriage '' . 
This did not mean that married students could not enroll in other `` mixed '' sections , and some of them , largely because of scheduling difficulties , did . 
But only those already married could enroll in this one section . 
In addition , two other differences in the two types of sections must be noted . 
( 1 ) The regular sections do not allow freshmen ; ; this one did . 
This action was rationalized on the basis of a small survey which indicated that a high percentage of married freshmen women on our campus never become sophomores . 
Many of them appear to drop out , for one reason or another . 
By permitting freshman students we might extend the opportunity for such a course to some individuals who otherwise might never get to take it . 
This has subsequently been verified by the experience . 
( 2 ) Auditors were encouraged . 
In the regular sections they have always been more or less discouraged . 
The philosophy has been that if they could find the time to attend class why not encourage them to get the credit and perhaps provide an incentive to do the work more effectively . 
Besides , auditors do not count on faculty load with the same weight as regularly enrolled students . 
But in this one section we welcomed auditors . 
Why ? 
For no particular reason , other than that the writer felt it might -- just might -- encourage both mates to be in attendance . 
Many of the men on our campus have a pretty set curriculum , especially in the various engineering fields , with few electives till the senior year . 
Incidentally , it needs to be noted that because auditors were permitted the section began increasing in numbers each week , until at last it swelled to such proportions that this `` free '' auditing policy had to be retracted . 
After that , we began to get `` visitors '' to class . 
This experimental class represented quite a variety of students . 
It ranged from a freshman woman , just married , through the various academic growth stages , including one senior-graduate student , to a young faculty member recently married to a senior man who also attended . 
It ranged from those with no children , through students in various stages of pregnancy , to one 44-year-old male with four children , three of whom were teenagers . 
It ranged from two women members who had experienced premarital pregnancy to one couple twelve years married and seemingly unable to conceive . 
One might digress at this point and speculate that if it is `` wise '' to create special sections for special status , then why not a special section for women pregnant before marriage , and one for 44-year-old men with teenage children , and so on . 
Some of these speculations may have some merit , others are somewhat ambiguous . 
But few who have experienced marriage can dispute the fact that the focus of interpersonal relationships is different in marriage than in a pre-marital situation . 
The writer began this special class by explaining his background thinking for creating such a section in the first place . 
He made it clear from the beginning that this was the students' opportunity , and that the future destiny of such groups depended on favorable results from this one . 
He did build a framework of academic `` respectability '' , and one which did not encroach upon the `` sacred sovereignty '' of any other existing campus course . 
This is to say that this was not a course in wise buying or money spending methods , nor a course in how to raise children . 
We already have courses covering those problems , and so on . 
But within that framework he allowed for as much flexibility as possible . 
A steering committee of students was organized on the first day whose duty it was to be alert and constantly evaluate and re-evaluate the direction and pace the class was taking . 
The writer , being cognizant through his interviews of the reactions of previous married students , did insist on there being included some `` hindsight '' material . 
But the greater part of semester time was actually centered around the attitudes : `` So we are married -- now how do we make the best of it '' ? 
Or `` How do we enrich our already fine marriage '' ? 
Films were used , as with all sections , but with one big difference . 
Our campus , unfortunately , owns no films . 
Since they are all either rented or borrowed , the requested dates for their use have to be far in advance . 
The writer never knew from week to week just where the section might be . 
For example , the steering committee might announce that the group felt a topic under study should not be dropped for an additional week as there was still too much of it untouched . 
Since the writer had established this democratic procedure in the beginning he had to go along with their decision -- after , of course , pointing out whether he thought their decision was a wise or an unwise one . 
Thus the films seen as they came in ( coordinated for the regular sections ) , were often out of context . 
Nevertheless , the writer has never experienced such spontaneity of discussion after film showings . 
Though it did not become known to the writer for some time , a nucleus group had sprung up within the class . 
They began to meet in the evenings and carry forward various discussions they felt not fully enough covered in class . 
From a few students this group gradually increased to include over three-fourths of those officially enrolled in the class , and many outsiders as well . 
Also , although only a few of the students were intimately acquainted with each other in the beginning , most reported that when the semester ended their dearest and closest campus friendships were with members of that class . 
In fact , they often revamped their social activities to include class members previously unknown . 
Supplemental outside reading reports were handled just as in the other sections , the major difference being that there was a noticeably deeper level in the reported outside reading by the married group . 
These students , although they might read various articles in popular magazines , more often chose to report on articles found in the journals . 
In addition to the noticeable difference in outside articles , there was a considerable difference in the outside books they read . 
Whereas a high percentage of the regular students can be expected to read other texts which more or less plow the same ground in a little different direction , the married students chose whole books on specific areas and went into much greater detail in their areas of interest . 
Since the writer had not noticed this characteristic in married students scattered throughout the various sections previous to this experiment , nor , as a matter of fact , in those who were continuing in `` single sections '' , he can only conclude that there must have been something `` contagious '' within the specific group which caused this to occur . 
In the main , this course took the following directional high roads . 
( 1 ) A great deal of time was spent on processes for solving marital differences . 
This was not a search for a `` magic formula '' , but rather an examination of basic principles pertaining especially to all types of communication in marriage . 
In short , it was centered around learning how to develop a more sensitive empathy . 
Not until the group was satisfied in this area were they willing to venture further to ( 2 ) , Specific adjustment areas , such as sex , in-laws , religion , finance , and so on . 
From here they proceeded to ( 3 ) These same areas in relation to their own future family life stages , developing these to the extent of examining various crises which could be expected to confront them at some time or other . 
As an example of this last facet , there were some lengthy discussions centered around bereavement . 
Mainly these were concerned with the possibility of the death of one parent and the complication of living with the survivor afterward , but the possible death of one's own spouse was not overlooked . 
Since the course , one member has lost her husband . 
This was not a particularly shocking or unexpected thing -- it was previously known to her that it might happen . 
But just when was an unknown , and of course the longer it did not happen , the stronger her wish and belief that it might not . 
Since her bereavement this individual has reported to the writer on numerous occasions about how helpful the class discussions were to her in this adjustment crisis . 
Quite frequently class members brought questions from their mates at home . 
These were often carefully written out with a great deal of thought behind them . 
This added a personal zest to class discussions and participation . 
Both sexes reported that the discussions on sex adjustment within marriage were extremely enlightening . 
The writer sensed a much freer and more frank discussion , especially of this one area , than ever before . 
He felt certain for the first time in his teaching experience that the men in the class understood that orgasm , as a criterion , is not nearly so essential for a satisfying female sexual experience as most males might think . 
This was probably much more meaningful because all the women in the class emphasized it time and again . 
On the other hand , the women class members appeared to reach a far greater understanding than have women members in other sections that it is more natural for males as a group to view sex as sex rather than always associating it with love as most women seem to do . 
In the reproductive area it could be readily observed that all felt freer to discuss things than students had previously in `` mixed '' marital status sections . 
Perhaps this was related to the fact that all were in on it to some extent . 
Never in other sections has there been the opportunity for the genuine down-to-earth discussions about the feelings of both spouses during various stages of pregnancy . 
There was a particularly marvelous opportunity for study in this area since almost every stage of pregnancy was represented , from a childless couple to and including every trimester . 
In fact , we had one birth before the end of the course , and another student had to take the final examiantion a week early , just to be on the safe side . 
There was also one spontaneous abortion during the semester . 
Thus it is reasonable to believe that there is a significant difference between the two groups in their performance on this task after a brief `` structuring '' experience . 
It was predicted that Kohnstamm-negative subjects would adhere to more liberal , concretistic reports of what the ambiguous figure `` looked like '' as reflecting their hesitancy about taking chances . 
This was true mostly of those Kohnstamm-negative subjects who did not perceive the ambiguous figure as people in action . 
Responses such as `` rope with a loop in it '' , and `` two pieces of rope '' , were quite characteristic . 
Guilford-Martin personality inventories . 
The three personality inventories ( Guilford ; ; Guilford-Martin ; ; Guilford-Martin ) were filled out by 12 of the Kohnstamm-positive subjects and 19 of the Kohnstamm-negative subjects . 
These were the same subjects who were given the Rorschach test . 
Some predictions had been made concerning factors R , N , I and Co on these inventories which appeared to be directly related to control and security aspects of personality functioning which were hypothesized as being of importance in differential Kohnstamm reactivity . 
Only Co differentiated between the two groups at less than the 5% level ( Af ) . 
One prediction had been made about the difference in security or self-confidence between those subjects who shifted their Kohnstamm reactivity when informed and those who did not . 
The nonreactors had been separated into two groups on this assumption with the presumably `` secure '' nonreactors and `` secure '' reactors being used as the groups for comparative personality studies . 
It was predicted that those who shifted in their Kohnstamm reactivity would differ significantly from those who did not on the factor I which the investigators refer to as the `` Inferiority '' factor . 
All of the subjects in the Kohnstamm-negative and Kohnstamm-positive groups ( as defined for purposes of the personality studies ) were compared with those subjects who shifted in Conditions 3 , or 4 . 
A t test on these two groups , shifters vs. nonshifters , gave a `` t '' value of 2.405 which is significant on the two-tail test at the level . 
Discussion individual differences Individual differences in Kohnstamm reactivity to controlled Kohnstamm situations were found among the subjects used in the study . 
Only 27% ( 11 subjects ) gave a positive Kohnstamm reaction when completely naive concerning the phenomenon . 
There were 49% ( 20 subjects ) who did not give a positive reaction even after they were informed of the normalcy of such a reaction and had been given a demonstration . 
There were 24% ( 10 subjects ) who shifted from a negative to a positive reaction after they were reassured as to the normalcy of the Kohnstamm-positive reaction . 
Among this latter group there were also differences in the amount and kind of information necessary before a shift in reaction occurred . 
One subject changed when given only the information that some people have something happen to their arm when they relax . 
Five subjects ( 12% ) did not change until they had been told that some people have something happen to their arm , what that something was , and also were given a demonstration . 
Four subjects ( 10% ) did not change even then but needed the additional information that an arm-elevation under these circumstances was a perfectly normal reflex reaction which some people showed while others did not . 
At no time was it implied by the experimenter that the subject's initial reaction was deviant . 
The subjects were only given information about other possibilities of `` normal '' reaction . 
Those who responded with an arm-elevation in the naive state did not change their reaction when told that there were some normal people who did not react in this fashion . 
This information was accepted with the frequent interpretation that those persons who did not show arm-levitation must be preventing it . 
These subjects implied that they too could prevent their arms from rising if they tried . 
The positive Kohnstamm reactivity in Condition 1 ( ( the naive state ) is not adequately explained by such a concept as suggestibility ( if suggestibility is defined as the influence on behavior by verbal cues ) . 
In no way , either verbally or behaviorally , did the experimenter indicate to the subjects any preferred mode of responding to the voluntary contraction . 
Moreover , when the experimenter did inform those subjects that there were some normal people who did not have their arm rise once they relaxed , the Kohnstamm-positive subjects were uninfluenced in their subsequent reactions to the Kohnstamm situation . 
They continued to give an arm-elevation . 
A differential suggestibility would have to be invoked to explain the failure of this additional information to influence the Kohnstamm-positive reactors and yet attribute their naive Kohnstamm reactivity to suggestion . 
Autosuggestibility , the reaction of the subject in such a way as to conform to his own expectations of the outcome ( i.e. , that the arm-rise is a reaction to the pressure exerted in the voluntary contraction , because of his knowledge that `` to every reaction there is an equal and opposite reaction '' ) also seems inadequate as an explanation for the following reasons : ( 1 ) the subjects' apparently genuine experience of surprise when their arms rose , and ( 2 ) manifestations of the phenomenon despite anticipations of something else happening ( e.g. , of becoming dizzy and maybe falling , an expectation spontaneously volunteered by one of the subjects ) . 
A suggestion Hypothesis also seems inadequate as an explanation for those who shifted their reactions after they were informed of the possibilities of `` normal '' reactions different from those which they gave . 
While they were told that there were some normal people who reacted differently than they had , they were also informed that there were other normals who reacted as they had . 
There was no implication made that their initial reaction ( absence of an arm-elevation ) was less preferred than the presence of levitation . 
A more tenable explanation for the change in reactions is that the added knowledge and increased familiarity with the total situation made it possible for these subjects to be less guarded and to relax , since any reaction seemed acceptable to the examiner as `` normal '' . 
The naive state , Condition 1 , , could therefore be viewed as an inhibiting one for 24% of the subjects in this study . 
They were not free to be themselves in this situation , an interpersonal one , where there was an observer of their reactions and they had no guide for acceptable behavior . 
Instructions to relax , i.e. , to be `` spontaneous '' , and react immediately to whatever impulse they might have , was not sufficiently reassuring until some idea of the possibilities of normal reactions had been given . 
While other conditions might be even more effective in bringing about a change from immobility to mobility in Kohnstamm reactivity , it is our hypothesis that all such conditions would have as a common factor the capacity to induce an attitude in the subject which enabled him to divorce himself temporarily from feelings of responsibility for his behavior . 
Alcohol ingestion succeeded in changing immobility to mobility quite strikingly in one pilot subject ( the only one with whom this technique was tried ) . 
This subject , who has been undergoing psychoanalytic psychotherapy for five years , did not give a positive Kohnstamm reaction under any of the four standardized conditions used in this experiment while sober . 
After two drinks containing alcohol , her arm flew upward very freely . 
There was evident delight on the part of the subject in response to her experience of the freedom of movement . 
She described herself as having the same kind of `` irresponsible '' feeling as she had once experienced under hypnosis . 
She ascribed her delight with both experiences to the effect they seemed to have of temporarily removing from her the controls which she felt so compulsively necessary to maintain even when it might seem appropriate to relax these controls . 
Many subjects attributed differences in Kohnstamm reactivity to differences in degrees of subjective control -- voluntary as the Kohnstamm-positive subjects perceived it and involuntary as the Kohnstamm-negative subjects perceived it . 
These suggested interpretations were given by the subjects spontaneously when they were told that there were people who reacted differently than they had . 
The Kohnstamm-positive subjects described the vivid experience of having their arms rise as one in which they exercised no control . 
They explained its absence in others on the basis of an intervention of control factors . 
They felt that they too could counteract the upward arm movement by a voluntary effort after they had once experienced the reaction . 
Some of those who did not initially react with an arm-elevation also associated their behavior in the situation with control factors -- an inability to relinquish control voluntarily . 
One subject spontaneously asked ( after her arm had finally risen ) , `` Do you suppose I was unconsciously keeping it down before '' ? 
Another said that her arm did not go up at first `` because I wouldn't let it ; ; I thought it wasn't supposed to '' . 
This subject was one who gave an arm-elevation on the second trial in the naive state but not in the first . 
She had felt that her arm wanted to go up in the first trial , but had consciously prevented it from so doing . 
She explained nonreactivity of others by saying that they were `` not letting themselves relax '' . 
When informed that there were some persons who did not have their arm go up , she commented , `` I don't see how they can prevent it '' . 
In contrast to this voluntary-control explanation for nonreactivity given by the Kohnstamm-positive subjects , the Kohnstamm-negative subjects offered an involuntary-control hypothesis to explain nonreactivity . 
They felt that they were relaxing as much as they could and that any control factors which might be present to prevent response must be on an unconscious level . 
The above discussion does not mean to imply that control factors were completely in abeyance in the Kohnstamm-positive subjects ; ; but rather that they could be diminished sufficiently not to interfere with arm-levitation . 
One Kohnstamm-positive subject who had both arms rise while being tested in the naive condition described her subjective experience as follows : `` You feel they're going up and you're on a stage and it's not right for them to do so and then you think maybe that's what's supposed to happen '' . 
She then described her experience as one in which she first had difficulty accepting for herself a state of being in which she relinquished control . 
However , she was able to relax and yield to the moment . 
It is our hypothesis that Kohnstamm-positive subjects are less hesitant about relinquishing control than are Kohnstamm-negative subjects ; ; that they can give up their control and allow themselves to be reactors rather than actors . 
It is our belief that this readiness to relinquish some control was evidenced by the Kohnstamm-positive subjects in some of the other experimental situations to be discussed below . 
Thus , this readiness to relax controls , evidenced in the Kohnstamm situation , appears to be a more general personality factor . 
Aniseikonic illusion The Kohnstamm-positive subjects seemed to be freer to experience the unusual and seemingly impossible in the external world . 
There was a significantly greater number in this group who reported a desk as being in a tilted position while a tennis ball resting on it remained stationary on the incline . 
This occurred in spite of the rational awareness that the ball should be going downhill . 
They knew that their perceptual experience differed from objective reality since they had seen the desk and ball prior to putting on the aniseikonic lenses . 
Yet they were not so bound by past experience and constriction as to deny their immediate perceptions and to be dominated by their knowledge of what the experience should be . 
The change in perceptions by some of the Kohnstamm-negative subjects , after they had been informed of the possibilities of normal reactions , suggests that their constriction and guardedness is associated with their general mode of responding to strange or unknown situations . 
They were able to experience at first , in terms of past conventionality . 
When informed as to the various possibilities of normal reactions , they were then able to experience the uniqueness of the present . 
It might be postulated that these subjects are unduly afraid of being wrong ; ; that they perceive new internal and environmental situations as `` threatening '' until they are tested and proved otherwise . 
While the interpretations that have been given are inferences only , they gain support from such comments as the following , which was made by one of the Kohnstamm-negative subjects who did not , on the first trial , perceive the tilt illusion . 
Control of socioeconomic status It would have been desirable for the two communities to have differed only in respect to the variable being investigated : the degree of structure in teaching method . 
The structured schools were in an industrial city , with three-family tenement houses typical of the residential areas , but with one rather sizable section of middle-class homes . 
The unstructured schools were in a large suburban community , predominantly middle- to upper-middle class , but fringed by an industrial area . 
In order to equate the samples on socioeconomic status , we chose schools in both cities on the basis of socioeconomic status of the neighborhoods . 
School principals and guidance workers made ratings of the various neighborhoods and the research team made independent observations of houses and dwelling areas . 
An objective scale was developed for rating school neighborhoods from these data . 
Equal proportions of children in each city were drawn from upper-lower and lower-middle class neighborhoods . 
Subjects Individual differences in maturation and the development of readiness for learning to read indicate that not until the third grade have most children had ample opportunity to demonstrate their capacity for school achievement . 
Therefore , third-grade children were chosen as subjects for this study . 
For purposes of sample selection only ( individual tests were given later ) we obtained group test scores of reading achievement and intelligence from school records of the entire third-grade population in each school system . 
The subjects for this study were randomly selected from stratified areas of the distribution , one-third as underachievers , one-third medium , and one-third over-achievers . 
Children whose reading scores were at least one standard deviation below the regression line of each total third-grade school population were considered under-achievers for the purposes of sample selection . 
Over-achievers were at least one standard deviation above the regression line in their school system . 
The final sample was not significantly different from a normal distribution in regard to reading achievement or intelligence test scores . 
Twenty-four classrooms in twelve unstructured schools furnished 156 cases , 87 boys and 69 girls . 
Eight classrooms in three structured schools furnished 72 cases , 36 boys and 36 girls . 
Administrative restrictions necessitated the smaller sample size in the structured schools . 
It was assumed that the sampling procedure was purely random with respect to the personality variables under investigation . 
Rating scale of compulsivity An interview schedule of open-ended questions and a multiple-choice questionnaire were prepared , and one parent of each of the sample children was seen in the home . 
The parent was asked to describe the child's typical behavior in certain standard situations in which there was an opportunity to observe tendencies toward perfectionism in demands upon self and others , irrational conformity to rules , orderliness , punctuality , and need for certainty . 
The interviewers were instructed not to suggest answers and , as much as possible , to record the parents' actual words as they described the child's behavior in home situations . 
The rating scale of compulsivity was constructed by first perusing the interview records , categorizing all evidence related to compulsivity , then arranging a distribution of such information apart from the case records . 
Final ratings were made on the basis of a point system which was developed after studying the distributions of actual behaviors recorded and assigning weight values to each type of behavior that was deviant from the discovered norms . 
Children scoring high in compulsivity were those who gave evidence of tension or emotionality in situations where there was lack of organization or conformity to standards and expectations , or who made exaggerated efforts to achieve these goals . 
The low compulsive child was one who appeared relatively unconcerned about such matters . 
For instance , the following statement was rated low in compulsivity , `` She's naturally quite neat about things , but it doesn't bother her at all if her room gets messy . 
But she cleans it up very well when I remind her '' . 
Measurement of anxiety Castaneda , et al revised the Taylor Anxiety Scale for use with children . 
The Taylor Scale was adapted from the Minnesota Multiphastic Personality Inventory , with item selection based upon clinical definitions of anxiety . 
There is much research evidence to validate the use of the instrument in differentiating individuals who are likely to manifest anxiety in varying degrees . 
Reliability and validation work with the Children's Anxiety Scale by Castaneda , et al demonstrated results closely similar to the findings with the adult scale . 
Although the Taylor Scale was designed as a group testing device , in this study it was individually administered by psychologically trained workers who established rapport and assisted the children in reading the items . 
Relationship of Anxiety to compulsivity The question may be raised whether or not we are dealing with a common factor in anxiety and compulsivity . 
The two ratings yield a correlation of , which is not significantly different from zero ; ; therefore , we have measured two different characteristics . 
In theory , compulsive behavior is a way of diminishing anxiety , and one might expect a negative association except for the possibility that for many children the obsessive-compulsive defenses are not sufficient to quell the amount of anxiety they suffer . 
The issue of interaction between anxiety and compulsivity will be taken up later . 
Criterion measurement In the primary grades , reading permeates almost every aspect of school progress , and the children's early experiences of success or failure in learning to read often set a pattern of total achievement that is relatively enduring throughout the following years . 
In establishing criterion measurements , it was therefore thought best to broaden the scope beyond the reading act itself . 
The predicted interaction effect should , if potent , extend its influence over all academic achievement . 
The Stanford Achievement Test , Form J , was administered by classroom teachers , consisting of a battery of six sub-tests : Paragraph Meaning , Word Meaning , Spelling , Language , Arithmetic Computation , and Arithmetic Reasoning . 
All of these sub-tests involve reading except Arithmetic Computation . 
Scores are stated in grade-equivalents on a national norm . 
The battery median grade-equivalent was used in data analysis in this study . 
The Wechsler Intelligence Scale For Children was administered to each sample third-grade child by a clinical worker . 
The relationship of intelligence test scores to school achievement is a well-established fact ( in this case , Af ) ; ; therefore , in the investigation of the present hypothesis , it was necessary to control this factor . 
The criterion score used in the statistical analysis is an index of over- or under-achievement . 
It is the discrepancy between the actual attained achievement test score and the score that would be predicted by the I.Q. . 
For example , on the basis of the regression equation , a child with an I.Q. of 120 in this sample would be expected to earn an achievement test score of 4.8 ( grade equivalent ) . 
If a child with an I.Q. of 120 scored 5.5 in achievement , his discrepancy score would be , representing of one year of over-achievement . 
A child with an I.Q. of 98 would be expected to earn an achievement test score of 3.5 . 
If such a child scored 3.0 , his discrepancy score would be -.5 , representing of one year of under-achievement . 
In this manner , the factors measured by the intelligence test were controlled , allowing discovered differences in achievement to be interpreted as resulting from other variables . 
Results test of interaction of compulsivity and teaching methods Tables 1 and 2 present the results of the statistical analysis of the data when compulsivity is used as the descriptive variable . 
Figure 1 portrays the mean achievement scores of each sub-group graphically . 
First of all , as we had surmised , the highly compulsive children in the structured setting score significantly better ( Af ) on achievement than do similar children in the unstructured schools . 
It can be seen too that when we contrast levels of compulsivity within the structured schools , the high compulsive children do better ( Af ) . 
No significant difference was found in achievement between high and low compulsive children within the unstructured school . 
The hypothesis of there being an interaction between compulsivity and teaching method was supported , in this case , at the level . 
While we had expected that compulsive children in the unstructured school setting would have difficulty when compared to those in the structured , we were surprised to find that the achievement of the high compulsives within the schools where the whole-word method is used in beginning reading compares favorably with that of the low compulsives . 
Indeed their achievement scores were somewhat better on an absolute basis although the difference was not significant . 
We speculate that compulsives in the unstructured schools are under greater strain because of the lack of systemization in their school setting , but that their need to organize ( for comfort ) is so intense that they struggle to induce the phonic rules and achieve in spite of the lack of direction from the environment . 
It is interesting to note that medium compulsives in the unstructured schools made the lowest achievement scores ( although not significantly lower ) . 
Possibly their compulsivity was not strong enough to cause them to build their own structure . 
Our conjecture is , then , that regardless of the manner in which school lessons are taught , the compulsive child accentuates those elements of each lesson that aid him in systematizing his work . 
When helped by a high degree of structure in lesson presentation , then , and only then , does such a child attain unusual success . 
Test of interaction of anxiety and teaching methods The statistical analyses of achievement in relation to anxiety and teaching methods and the interactions of the two are presented in Tables 3 and 4 . 
Figure 2 is a graph of the mean achievement scores of each group . 
As predicted , the highly anxious children in the unstructured schools score more poorly ( Af ) than those in the structured schools . 
The interaction effect , which is significant at the level , can be seen best in the contrast of mean scores . 
While high anxiety children achieve significantly less well ( Af ) in the unstructured school than do low anxiety children , they appear to do at least as well as the average in the structured classroom . 
The most striking aspect of the interaction demonstrated is the marked decrement in performance suffered by the highly anxious children in unstructured schools . 
According to the theory proposed , this is a consequence of the severe condition of perceived threat that persists unabated for the anxious child in an ambiguous sort of school environment . 
The fact that such threat is potent in the beginning reading lessons is thought to be a vital factor in the continued pattern of failure or under-achievement these children exhibit . 
The child with high anxiety may first direct his anxiety-released energy toward achievement , but because his distress severely reduces the abilities of discrimination and memorization of complex symbols , the child may fail in his initial attempts to master the problem . 
Failure confirms the threat , and the intensity of anxiety is increased as the required learning becomes more difficult , so that by the time the child reaches the third grade the decrement in performance is pronounced . 
The individual with high anxiety in the structured classroom may approach the learning task with the same increased energy and lowered powers of discrimination . 
But the symbols he is asked to learn are simple . 
As shown earlier , the highly anxious individual may be superior in his memorizing of simple elements . 
Success reduces the prospect of threat and his powers of discrimination are improved . 
By the time the child first attacks the actual problem of reading , he is completely familiar and at ease with all of the elements of words . 
Apparently academic challenge in the structured setting creates an optimum of stress so that the child with high anxiety is able to achieve because he is aroused to an energetic state without becoming confused or panicked . 
Sarason et al present evidence that the anxious child will suffer in the test-like situation , and that his performance will be impaired unless he receives supporting and accepting treatment from the teacher . 
Although the present study was not a direct replication of their investigations , the results do not confirm their conclusion . 
Observers , in the two school systems studied here , judged the teachers in the structured schools to be more impersonal and demanding , while the atmosphere in the unstructured schools was judged to be more supporting and accepting . 
Yet the highly anxious child suffered a tremendous disadvantage only in the unstructured school , and performed as well or better than average in the structured setting . 
Analysis Analysis means the evaluation of subparts , the comparative ratings of parts , the comprehension of the meaning of isolated elements . 
Analysis in roleplaying is usually done for the purpose of understanding strong and weak points of an individual or as a process to eliminate weak parts and strengthen good parts . 
Impersonal purposes Up to this point stress has been placed on roleplaying in terms of individuals . 
Roleplaying can be done for quite a different purpose : to evaluate procedures , regardless of individuals . 
For example : a sales presentation can be analyzed and evaluated through roleplaying . 
Examples Let us now put some flesh on the theoretical bones we have assembled by giving illustrations of roleplaying used for evaluation and analysis . 
One should keep in mind that many of the exciting possiblities of roleplaying are largely unexplored and have not been used in industry to the extent that they have been in military and other areas . 
Evaluation The president of a small firm selling restaurant products , had considerable difficulty in finding suitable salesmen for his business . 
Interviewing , checking references , training the salesmen , having them go with more experienced salesmen was expensive -- and the rate of attrition due to resignations or unsatisfactory performance was too high . 
It was his experience that only one good salesman was found out of every seven hired -- and only one was hired out of every seven interviewed . 
Roleplaying was offered as a solution -- and the procedure worked as follows : all candidates were invited to a hotel conference room , where the president explained the difficulty he had , and how unnecessary it seemed to him to hire people who just did not work out . 
In place of asking salesmen to fill questionnaires , checking their references , interviewing them , asking them to be tried out , he told them he would prefer to test them . 
Each person was to enter the testing room , carrying a suitcase of samples . 
Each salesman was to read a sheet containing a description of the product . 
In the testing room he was to make , successively , three presentations to three different people . 
In the testing room , three of the veteran salesmen served as antagonists . 
One handled the salesman in a friendly manner , another in a rough manner , and the third in a hesitating manner . 
Each was told to purchase material if he felt like it . 
The antagonists came in , one at a time , and did not see or hear the other presentations . 
After each presentation , the antagonist wrote his judgment of the salesmen ; ; and so did the observers consisting of the president , three of his salesmen and a psychologist . 
Ten salesmen were tested in the morning and ten more in the afternoon . 
This procedure was repeated one day a month for four months . 
The batting average of one success out of seven increased to one out of three . 
The president of the firm , calculating expenses alone , felt his costs had dropped one-half while success in selection had improved over one hundred per cent . 
The reason for the value of this procedure was simply that the applicants were tested `` at work '' in different situations by the judgment of a number of experts who could see how the salesmen conducted themselves with different , but typical restaurant owners and managers . 
They were , in a sense , `` tried out '' in realistic situations . 
From the point of view of the applicants , less time was wasted in being evaluated -- and they got a meal out of it as well as some insights into their performances . 
Another use of roleplaying for evaluation illustrates how this procedure can be used in real life situations without special equipment or special assistants during the daily course of work . 
The position of receptionist was opened in a large office and an announcement was made to the other girls already working that they could apply for this job which had higher prestige and slightly higher salary than typing and clerking positions . 
All applicants were generally familiar with the work of the receptionist . 
At the end of work one day , the personnel man took the applicants one at a time , asked them to sit behind the receptionist's desk and he then played the role of a number of people who might come to the receptionist with a number of queries and for a number of purposes . 
Each girl was independently `` tested '' by the personnel man , and he served not only as the director , but as the antagonist and the observer . 
Somewhat to his surprise he found that one girl , whom he would never have considered for the job since she had appeared somewhat mousy and also had been in the office a relatively short time , did the most outstanding job of playing the role of receptionist , showing wit , sparkle , and aplomb . 
She was hired and was found to be entirely satisfactory when she played the role eight hours a day . 
Analysis In considering roleplaying for analysis we enter a more complex area , since we are now no longer dealing with a simple over-all decision but rather with the examination and evaluation of many elements seen in dynamic functioning . 
Some cases in evidence of the use of roleplaying for analysis may help explain the procedure . 
An engineer had been made the works manager of a firm , supplanting a retired employee who had been considered outstandingly successful . 
The engineer had more than seven years of experience in the firm , was well trained , was considered a hard worker , was respected by his fellow engineers for his technical competence and was regarded as a `` comer '' . 
However , he turned out to be a complete failure in his new position . 
He seemed to antagonize everyone . 
Turnover rates of personnel went up , production dropped , and morale was visibly reduced . 
Despite the fact that he was regarded as an outstanding engineer , he seemed to be a very poor administrator , although no one quite knew what was wrong with him . 
At the insistence of his own supervisor -- the president of the firm -- he enrolled in a course designed to develop leaders . 
He played a number of typical situations before observers , other supervisors who kept notes and then explained to him in detail what he did they thought was wrong . 
Entirely concerned with efficiency , he was merciless in criticizing people who made mistakes , condemning them to too great an extent . 
He did not really listen to others , had little interest in their ideas , and wanted to have his own way -- which was the only right way . 
The entire group of managers explained , in great detail , a number of human relations errors that he made . 
One by one , these errors were discussed and one by one he rejected accepting them as errors . 
He admitted his behavior , and defended it . 
He refused to change his approach , and instead he attacked high and low -- the officials for their not backing him , and subordinates for their laxness , stupidity , and stubbornness . 
After the diagnosing , he left the course , convinced that it could do him no good . 
We may say that his problem was diagnosed but that he refused treatment . 
The engineer turned works manager had a particular view of life -- and refused to change it . 
We may say that his attitude was foolish , since he may have been a success had he learned some human relations skills ; ; or we may say that his attitude was commendable , showing his independence of mind , in his refusal to adjust to the opinions of others . 
In any case , he refused to accept the implications of the analysis , that he needed to be made over . 
Another case may be given in illustration of a successful use of analysis , and also of the employment of a procedure for intensive analysis . 
In a course for supermarket operators , a district manager who had been recently appointed to his position after being outstandingly successful as a store manager , found that in supervising other managers he was having a difficult time . 
On playing some typical situations before a jury of his peers he showed some characteristics rated as unsatisfactory . 
He was told he displayed , for example , a sense of superiority -- and he answered : `` Well , I am supposed to know all the answers , aren't I '' ? 
He was criticized for his curtness and abruptness -- and he answered : `` I am not working to become popular '' . 
On being criticized for his arbitrary behavior -- he answered : `` I have to make decisions . 
That's my job '' . 
In short , as frequently happens in analyses , the individual feels threatened and defends himself . 
However , in this case the district manager was led to see the errors of his ways . 
The necessary step between diagnosis and training is acceptance of the validity of the criticisms . 
How this was accomplished may be described , since this sometimes is a crucial problem . 
The director helped tailor-make a check list of the district manager's errors by asking various observers to write out sentences commenting on the mistakes they felt he made . 
These errors were then collected and written on a blackboard , condensing similar ideas . 
Eighteen errors were located , and then the director asked each individual to vote whether or not they felt that this manager had made the particular errors . 
They were asked to vote `` true '' if they thought they had seen him make the error , `` false '' if they thought he had not ; ; and `` cannot say '' if they were not certain . 
The manager sat behind the group so he could see and count the hands that went up , and the director wrote the numbers on the blackboard . 
No comments were made during the voting . 
The results looked as follows : Af . 
The first eight of these eighteen statements , which received at least one-half of the votes , were duplicated to form an analysis checklist for the particular manager , and when this particular manager roleplayed in other situations , the members checked any items that appeared . 
To prevent the manager from deliberately controlling himself only during the sessions , they were rather lengthy ( about twenty minutes ) , the situations were imperfectly described to the manager so that he would not know what to expect , new antagonists were brought on the scene unexpectedly , and the antagonists were instructed to deliberately behave in such ways as to upset the manager and get him to operate in a manner for which he had been previously criticized . 
After every session , the check marks were totaled up and graphed , and in this way the supervisor's progress was charted . 
Summary In life we learn to play our roles and we `` freeze '' into patterns which become so habitual that we are not really aware of what we do . 
We can see others more clearly than we can see ourselves , and others can see us better than we see ourselves . 
To learn what we do is the first step for improvement . 
To accept the validity of the judgments of others is the second step . 
To want to change is the third step . 
To practice new procedures under guided supervision and with constant feedback is the fourth step . 
To use these new ways in daily life is the last step . 
Roleplaying used for analysis follows these general steps leading to training . 
When an evaluative situation is set up , and no concern is with the details that lead to an over-all estimate , we say that roleplaying is used for evaluation . 
Observers can see a person engaged in spontaneous behavior , and watch him operating in a totalistic fashion . 
This behavior is more `` veridical '' -- or true -- than other testing behavior for some types of evaluation , and so can give quick and accurate estimates of complex functioning . 
While roleplaying for testing is not too well understood at the present time , it represents one of the major uses of this procedure . 
Chapter 10 , spontaneity training the objective of this chapter is to clarify the distinctions between spontaneity theory and other training concepts . 
In addition , the basic approach utilized in applying roleplaying will be reviewed . 
The goal will be to provide the reader with an integrated rationale to aid him in applying roleplaying techniques in this unique training area . 
The reasons for extracting this particular roleplaying application from the previous discussion of training are twofold . 
1 . 
Spontaneity training theory is unique and relatively new . 
It is not easy for the therapist to discern when , in the patient's communicating , an introject has appeared and is holding sway . 
One learns to become alert to changes in his vocal tone -- to his voice's suddenly shifting to a quality not like his usual one , a quality which sounds somehow artificial or , in some instances , parrot-like . 
The content of his words may lapse back into monotonous repetition , as if a phonograph needle were stuck in one groove ; ; only seldom is it so simple as to be a matter of his obviously parroting some timeworn axiom , common to our culture , which he has evidently heard , over and over , from a parent until he experiences it as part of him . 
One hebephrenic woman often became submerged in what felt to me like a somehow phony experience of pseudo-emotion , during which , despite her wracking sobs and streaming cheeks , I felt only a cold annoyance with her . 
Eventually such incidents became more sporadic , and more sharply demarcated from her day-after-day behavior , and in one particular session , after several minutes of such behavior -- which , as usual , went on without any accompanying words from her -- she asked , eagerly , `` Did you see Granny '' ? 
At first I did not know what she meant ; ; I thought she must be seeing me as some one who had just come from seeing her grandmother , in their distant home-city . 
Then I realized that she had been deliberately showing me , this time , what Granny was like ; ; and when I replied in this spirit , she corroborated my hunch . 
At another phase in the therapy , when a pathogenic mother-introject began to emerge more and more upon the investigative scene , she muttered in a low but intense voice , to herself , `` I hate that woman inside me '' ! 
I could evoke no further elaboration from her about this ; ; but a few seconds later she was standing directly across the room from me , looking me in the eyes and saying in a scathingly condemnatory tone , `` Your father despises you '' ! 
Again , I at first misconstrued this disconcertingly intense communication , and I quickly cast through my mind to account for her being able to speak , with such utter conviction , of an opinion held by my father , now several years deceased . 
Then I replied , coldly , `` If you despise me , why don't you say so , directly '' ? 
She looked confused at this , and I felt sure it had been a wrong response for me to make . 
It then occurred to me to ask , `` Is that what that woman told you '' ? 
She clearly agreed that this had been the case . 
I realized , now , that she had been showing me , in what impressed me as being a very accurate way , something her mother had once said to her ; ; it was as if she was showing me one of the reasons why she hated that woman inside her . 
What had been an unmanageably powerful introject was now , despite its continuing charge of energy disconcerting to me , sufficiently within control of her ego that she could use it to show me what this introjected mother was like . 
Earlier , this woman had been so filled with a chaotic variety of introjects that at times , when she was in her room alone , it would sound to a passerby as though there were several different persons in the room , as she would vocalize in various kinds of voice . 
A somewhat less fragmented hebephrenic patient of mine , who used to often seclude herself in her room , often sounded through the closed door -- as I would find on passing by , between our sessions -- for all the world like two persons , a scolding mother and a defensive child . 
Particularly hard for the therapist to grasp are those instances in which the patient is manifesting an introject traceable to something in the therapist , some aspect of the therapist of which the latter is himself only poorly aware , and the recognition of which , as a part of himself , he finds distinctly unwelcome . 
I have found , time and again , that some bit of particularly annoying and intractable behavior on the part of a patient rests , in the final analysis , on this basis ; ; and only when I can acknowledge this , to myself , as being indeed an aspect of my personality , does it cease to be a prominently troublesome aspect of the patient's behavior . 
For example , one hebephrenic man used to annoy me , month after month , by saying , whenever I got up to leave and made my fairly steoreotyped comment that I would be seeing him on the following day , or whenever , `` You're welcome '' , in a notably condescending fashion -- as though it were his due for me to thank him for the privilege of spending the hour with him , and he were thus pointing up my failure to utter a humbly grateful , `` thank you '' to him at the end of each session . 
Eventually it became clear to me , partly with the aid of another schizophrenic patient who could point out my condescension to me somewhat more directly , that this man , with his condescending , `` You're welcome '' , was very accurately personifying an element of obnoxious condescension which had been present in my own demeanor , over these months , on each of these occasions when I had bid him good-bye with the consoling note , each time , that the healing Christ would be stooping to dispense this succor to the poor sufferer again on the morrow . 
Another patient , a paranoid woman , for many months infuriated not only me but the ward-personnel and her fellow patients by arrogantly behaving as though she owned the whole building , as though she were the only person in it whose needs were to be met . 
This behavior on her part subsided only after I had come to see the uncomfortably close similarity between , on the one hand , her arranging the ventilation of the common living room to her own liking , or turning the television off or on without regard to the wishes of the others , and on the other hand , my own coming stolidly into her room despite her persistent and vociferous objections , bringing my big easy chair with me , usually shutting the windows of her room which she preferred to keep in a very cold state , and plunking myself down in my chair -- in short , behaving as if I owned her room . 
4 . 
Condensation . 
Here a variety of meanings and emotions are concentrated , or reduced , in their communicative expression , to some comparatively simple-seeming verbal or nonverbal statement . 
One finds , for example , that a terse and stereotyped verbal expression , seeming at first to be a mere hollow convention , reveals itself over the months of therapy as the vehicle for expressing the most varied and intense feelings , and the most unconventional of meanings . 
More than anything , it is the therapist's intuitive sensing of these latent meanings in the stereotype which helps these meanings to become revealed , something like a spread-out deck of cards , on sporadic occasions over the passage of the patient's and his months of work together . 
One cannot assume , of course , that all these accumulated meanings were inherent in the stereotype at the beginning of the therapy , or at any one time later on when the stereotype was uttered ; ; probably it is correct to think of it as a matter of a well-grooved , stereotyped mode of expression -- and no , or but a few , other communicational grooves , as yet -- being there , available for the patient's use , as newly-emerging emotions and ideas well up in him over the course of months . 
But it is true that the therapist can sense , when he hears this stereotype , that there are at this moment many emotional determinants at work in it , a blurred babel of indistinct voices which have yet to become clearly delineated from one another . 
Sometimes it is not a verbal stereotype -- a `` How are you now '' ? 
Or an `` I want to go home '' , or whatever -- but a nonverbal one which reveals itself , gradually , as the condensed expression of more than one latent meaning . 
A hebephrenic man used to give a repetitious wave of his hand a number of times during his largely-silent hours with his therapist . 
When the therapist came to feel on sufficiently sure ground with him to ask him , `` What is that , Bill -- hello or farewell '' ? 
, the patient replied , `` Both , Dearie -- two in one '' . 
Of all the possible forms of nonverbal expression , that which seems best to give release , and communicational expression , to complex and undifferentiated feelings is laughter . 
It is no coincidence that the hebephrenic patient , the most severely dedifferentiated of all schizophrenic patients , shows , as one of his characteristic symptoms , laughter -- laughter which now makes one feel scorned or hated , which now makes one feel like weeping , or which now gives one a glimpse of the bleak and empty expanse of man's despair ; ; and which , more often than all these , conveys a welter of feelings which could in no way be conveyed by any number of words , words which are so unlike this welter in being formed and discrete from one another . 
To a much less full extent , the hebephrenic person's belching or flatus has a comparable communicative function ; ; in working with these patients the therapist eventually gets to do some at least private mulling over of the possible meaning of a belch , or the passage of flatus , not only because he is reduced to this for lack of anything else to analyze , but also because he learns that even these animal-like sounds constitute forms of communication in which , from time to time , quite different things are being said , long before the patient can become sufficiently aware of these , as distinct feelings and concepts , to say them in words . 
As I have been intimating , in the schizophrenic -- and perhaps also in the dreams of the neurotic ; ; this is a question which I have no wish to take up -- condensation is a phenomenon in which one finds not a condensed expression of various feelings and ideas which are , at an unconscious level , well sorted out , but rather a condensed expression of feelings and ideas which , even in the unconscious , have yet to become well differentiated from one another . 
Freeman , Cameron and McGhie , in their description of the disturbances of thinking found in chronic schizophrenic patients , say , in regard to condensation , that `` the lack of adequate discrimination between the self and the environment , and the objects contained therein in itself is the prototypical condensation '' . 
In my experience , a great many of the patient's more puzzling verbal communications are so for the reason that concrete meanings have not become differentiated from figurative meanings in his subjective experience . 
Thus he may be referring to some concrete thing , or incident , in his immediate environment by some symbolic-sounding , hyperbolic reference to transcendental events on the global scene . 
Recently , for example , a paranoid woman's large-scale philosophizing , in the session , about the intrusive curiosity which has become , in her opinion , a deplorable characteristic of mid-twentieth-century human culture , developed itself , before the end of the session , into a suspicion that I was surreptitiously peeking at her partially exposed breast , as indeed I was . 
Or , equally often , a concretistic-seeming , particularistic-seeming statement may consist , with its mundane exterior , in a form of poetry -- may be full of meaning and emotion when interpreted as a figurative expression : a metaphor , a smile , an allegory , or some other symbolic mode of speaking . 
Of such hidden meanings the patient himself is , more often than not , entirely unaware . 
His subjective experience may be a remarkably concretistic one . 
One hebephrenic women confided to me , `` I live in a world of words '' , as if , to her , words were fully concrete objects ; ; Burnham , in his excellent article ( 1955 ) concerning schizophrenic communication , includes mention of similar clinical material . 
A borderline schizophrenic young man told me that to him the various theoretical concepts about which he had been expounding , in a most articulate fashion , during session after session with me , were like great cubes of almost tangibly solid matter up in the air above him ; ; as he spoke I was reminded of the great bales of cargo which are swung , high in the air , from a docked steamship . 
The many linguistic techniques for reducing the amount of dictionary information that have been proposed all organize the dictionary's contents around prefixes , stems , suffixes , etc. . 
A significant reduction in the voume of store information is thus realized , especially for a highly inflected language such as Russian . 
For English the reduction in size is less striking . 
This approach requires that : ( 1 ) each text word be separated into smaller elements to establish a correspondence between the occurrence and dictionary entries , and ( 2 ) the information retrieved from several entries in the dictionary be synthesized into a description of the particular word . 
The logical scheme used to accomplish the former influences the placement of information in the dictionary file . 
Implementation of the latter requires storage of information needed only for synthesis . 
We suggest the application of certain data-processing techniques as a solution to the problem . 
But first , we must define two terms so that their meaning will be clearly understood : form -- any unique sequence of alphabetic characters that can appear in a language preceded and followed by a space ; ; occurrence -- an instance of a form in text . 
We propose a method for selecting only dictionary information required by the text being translated and a means for passing the information directly to the occurrences in text . 
We accomplish this by compiling a list of text forms as text is read by the computer . 
A random-storage scheme , based on the spelling of forms , provides an economical way to compile this text-form list . 
Dictionary forms found to match forms in the text list are marked . 
A location in the computer store is also named for each marked form ; ; dictionary information about the form stored at this location can be retrieved directly by occurrences of the form in text . 
Finally , information is retrieved from the dictionary as required by stages of the translation process -- the grammatical description for sentence-structure determination , equivalent-choice information for semantic analysis , and target-language equivalents for output construction . 
The dictionary is a form dictionary , at least in the sense that complete forms are used as the basis for matching text occurrences with dictionary entries . 
Also , the dictionary is divided into at least two parts : the list of dictionary forms and the file of information that pertains to these forms . 
A more detailed description of dictionary operations -- text lookup and dictionary modification -- gives a clearer picture . 
Text lookup , as we will describe it , consists of three steps . 
The first is compiling a list of text forms , assigning an information cell to each , and replacing text occurrences with the information cell assigned to the form of each occurrence . 
For this step the computer memory is separated into three regions : cells in the W-region are used for storage of the forms in the text-form list ; ; cells in the X-region and Y region are reserved as information cells for text forms . 
When an occurrence Af is isolated during text reading , a random memory address Af , the address of a cell in the X-region , is computed from the form of Af . 
Let Af denote the form of Af . 
If cell Af has not previously been assigned as the information cell of a form in the text-form list , it is now assigned as the information cell of Af . 
The form itself is stored in the next available cells of the W-region , beginning in cell Af . 
The address Af and the number of cells required to store the form are written in Af ; ; the information cell Af is saved to represent the text occurrence . 
Text reading continues with the next occurrence . 
Let us assume that Af is identical to the form of an occurrence Af which preceded Af in the text . 
When this situation exists , the address Af will equal Af which was produced from Af . 
If Af was assigned as the information cell for Af , the routine can detect that Af is identical to Af by comparing Af with the form stored at location Af . 
The address Af is stored in the cell Af . 
When , as in this case , the two forms match , the address Af is saved to represent the occurrence Af . 
Text reading continues with the next occurrence . 
A third situation is possible . 
The formula for computing random addresses from the form of each occurrence will not give a distinct address for each distinct form . 
Thus , when more than one distinct form leads to a particular cell in the X-region , a chain of information cells must be created to accommodate the forms , one cell in the chain for each form . 
If Af leads to an address Af that is equal to the address computed from Af , even though Af does not match Af , the chain of information cells is extended from Af by storing the address of the next available cell in the Y-region , Af , in Af . 
The cell Af becomes the second information cell in the chain and is assigned as the information cell of Af . 
A third cell can be added by storing the address of another Y-cell in Af ; ; similarly , as many cells are added as are required . 
Each information cell in the chain contains the address of the Y-cell where the form to which it is assigned is stored . 
Each cell except the last in the chain also contains the address of the Y-cell that is the next element of the chain ; ; the absence of such a link in the last cell indicates the end of the chain . 
Hence , when the address Af is computed from Af , the cell Af and all Y-cells in its chain must be inspected to determine whether Af is already in the form list or whether it should be added to the form list and the chain . 
When the information cell for Af has been determined , it is saved as a representation of Af . 
Text reading continues with the next occurrence . 
Text reading is terminated when a pre-determined number of forms have been stored in the text-form list . 
This initiates the second step of glossary lookup -- connecting the information cell of forms in the text-form list to dictionary forms . 
Each form represented by the dictionary is looked up in the text-form list . 
Each time a dictionary form matches a text form , the information cell of the matching text form is saved . 
The number of dictionary forms skipped since the last one matched is also saved . 
These two pieces of information for each dictionary form that is matched by a text form constitute the table of dictionary usage . 
If each text form is marked when matched with a dictionary form , the text forms not contained in the dictionary can be identified when all dictionary forms have been read . 
The appropriate action for handling these forms can be taken at that time . 
Each dictionary form is looked up in the text-form list by the same method used to look up a new text occurrence in the form list during text reading . 
A random address Af that lies within the X-region of memory mentioned earlier is computed from the i-th dictionary form . 
If cell Af is an information cell , it and any information cells in the Y-region that have been linked to Af each contain an address in the W-region where a potentially matching form is stored . 
The dictionary form is compared with each of these text forms . 
When a match is found , an entry is made in the table of dictionary usage . 
If cell Af is not an information cell we conclude that the i-th dictionary form is not in the text list . 
These two steps essentially complete the lookup operation . 
The final step merely uses the table of dictionary usage to select the dictionary information that pertains to each form matched in the text-form list , and uses the list of information cells recorded in text order to attach the appropriate information to each occurrence in text . 
The list of text forms in the W-region of memory and the contents of the information cells in the X and Y-regions are no longer required . 
Only the assignment of the information cells is important . 
The first stage of translation after glossary lookup is structural analysis of the input text . 
The grammatical description of each occurrence in the text must be retrieved from the dictionary to permit such an analysis . 
A description of this process will serve to illustrate how any type of information can be retrieved from the dictionary and attached to each text occurrence . 
The grammatical descriptions of all forms in the dictionary are recorded in a separate part of the dictionary file . 
The order is identical to the ordering of the forms they describe . 
When entries are being retrieved from this file , the table of dictionary usage indicates which entries to skip and which entries to store in the computer . 
This selection-rejection process takes place as the file is read . 
Each entry that is selected for storage is written into the next available cells of the Aj . 
The address of the first cell and the number of cells used is written in the information cell for the form . 
( The address of the information cell is also supplied by the table of dictionary usage . 
) When the complete file has been read , the grammatical descriptions for all text forms found in the dictionary have been stored in the W-region ; ; the information cell assigned to each text form contains the address of the grammatical description of the form it represents . 
Hence , the description of each text occurrence can be retrieved by reading the list of text-ordered information-cell addresses and outputting the description indicated by the information cell for each occurrence . 
The only requirements on dictionary information made by the text-lookup operation are that each form represented by the dictionary be available for lookup in the text-form list and that information for each form be available in a sequence identical with the sequence of the forms . 
This leaves the ordering of entries variable . 
( Here an entry is a form plus the information that pertains to it . 
) Two very useful ways for modifying a form-dictionary are the addition to the dictionary of complete paradigms rather than single forms and the application of a single change to more than one dictionary form . 
The former is intended to decrease the amount of work necessary to extend dictionary coverage . 
The latter is useful for modifying information about some or all forms of a word , hence reducing the work required to improve dictionary contents . 
Applying the techniques developed at Harvard for generating a paradigm from a representative form and its classification , we can add all forms of a word to the dictionary at once . 
An extension of the principle would permit entering a grammatical description of each form . 
Equivalents could be assigned to the paradigm either at the time it is added to the dictionary or after the word has been studied in context . 
Thus , one can think of a dictionary entry as a word rather than a form . 
If all forms of a paradigm are grouped together within the dictionary , a considerable reduction in the amount of information required is possible . 
For example , the inflected forms of a word can be represented , insofar as regular inflection allows , by a stem and a set of endings to be attached . 
( Indeed , the set of endings can be replaced by the name of a set of endings . 
) The full forms can be derived from such information just prior to the lookup of the form in the text-form list . 
Similarly , if the equivalents for the forms of a word do not vary , the equivalents need be entered only once with an indication that they apply to each form . 
The dictionary system is in no way dependent upon such summarization or designed around it . 
When irregularity and variation prevent summarizing , information is written in complete detail . 
Entries are summarized only when by doing so the amount of information retained in the dictionary is reduced and the time required for dictionary operations is decreased . 
In sentences , patterns of stress are determined by complex combinations of influences that can only be suggested here . 
The tendency is toward putting dominant stress at the end . 
There is a parallel to this tendency in the assignment of time in long-known hymn tunes . 
Thus the first lines of one of Charles Wesley's hymns are as follows . 
`` A charge to keep I have , A God to glorify '' . 
In the tune to which this hymn is most often sung , `` Boylston '' , the syllables have and fy , ending their lines , have twice the time any other syllables have . 
Dominant stress is of course more than extended duration , and normally centers on syllables that would have primary stress or phrase stress if the words or longer units they are parts of were spoken alone : a dominant stress given to glorify would normally center on its first syllable rather than its last . 
But the parallel is significant . 
When the answer to what's wrong now ? 
Is Bill's broken a chair , dominant stress will usually be on the complement a chair . 
From the point of view of syntactic analysis the head word in the statement is the predicator has broken , and from the point of view of meaning it would seem that the trouble centers in the breaking ; ; but dominant stress will be assigned to broken only in rather exceptional versions of the sentence . 
In I know one thing dominant stress will usually be on the complement one thing ; ; in one thing I know it will usually be on the predicator know . 
In small-town people are very friendly dominant stress will generally be on the complement very friendly ; ; in the double sentence the smaller the town , the friendlier the people it will generally be on the subjects the town and the people . 
In what's a linguist ? 
dominant stress will generally be on the subject a linguist ; ; in who's a linguist ? 
it will generally be on the complement a linguist . 
Dominant stress is on her luggage both in that's her luggage , where her luggage is the complement , and in there's her luggage , where it is the subject . 
Adverbial second complements , however , are likely not to have dominant stress when they terminate sentences . 
If the answer to what was that noise ? 
Is George put the cat out , dominant stress will ordinarily be on the first complement , the cat , not the second complement out . 
Final adjuncts may or may not have dominant stress . 
If the answer to what was that noise ? 
Is George reads the news emotionally , dominant stress may or may not be on the adjunct emotionally . 
When prepositional complements are divided as in what are you looking for ? 
They are likely to lose dominant stress . 
Context is of extreme importance . 
What is new in the context is likely to be made more prominent than what is not . 
Thus in a context in which there has been discussion of snow but mention of local conditions is new , dominant stress will probably be on here in it rarely snows here , but in a context in which there has been discussion of local weather but no mention of snow , dominant stress will probably be on snows . 
The personal pronouns and substitute one are normally unstressed because they refer to what is prominent in the immediate context . 
In I'll go with George dominant stress is probably on George ; ; but if George has just been mentioned prominently ( and the trip to be made has been under discussion ) , what is said is probably I'll go with him , and dominant stress is probably on the preposition with . 
When a gesture accompanies who's he ? 
the personal pronoun has dominant stress because `` he '' has not been mentioned previously . 
If both George and a piece of information George does not have are prominent in the context , but the idea of telling George is new , then dominant stress will probably be on tell in why not tell George ? 
But when what is new in a particular context is also fairly obvious , there is normally only light stress or no stress at all . 
Thus the unstressed it of it rarely snows here gets its significance from its use with snows : nothing can snow snow but `` it '' . 
In there aren't many young people in the neighborhood the modifier young takes dominant stress away from its head people : the fact that the young creatures of interest are people seems rather obvious . 
If women replaced people , it would normally have dominant stress . 
In I have things to do the word things makes little real contribution to meaning and has weaker stress than do . 
If work is substituted for things ( with more exact contribution to meaning ) , it will have dominant stress . 
In I know one thing dominant stress is likely to go to one rather than to semantically pale thing . 
In I knew you when you were a child , and you were pretty then dominant stress on then implies that the young woman spoken to is still pretty . 
Dominant stress on pretty would be almost insulting here . 
In the written language then can be underlined or italicized to guide the reader here , but much of the time the written language simply depends on the reader's alertness , and a careless reader will have to back up and reread . 
Often , dominant stress simply indicates a centering of attention or emotion . 
Thus in it's incredible what that boy can eat dominant stress is likely to be on incredible , and eat will have strong stress also . 
In she has it in for George dominant stress will ordinarily be on in , where the notion of stored-up antipathy seems to center . 
In we're painting at our garage strong stress on at indicates that the job being done is not real painting but simply an effort at painting . 
Where there is comparison or contrast , dominant stresses normally operate to center attention . 
Thus in his friends are stranger than his sisters' strong stresses are normal for his and sisters' , but in his friends are stranger than his sisters strong stresses are normal for friends and sisters . 
In he's hurting himself more than he's hurting you both himself and you have stronger stress than they would ordinarily have if there were no contrast . 
In is she Chinese or Japanese ? 
The desire to contrast the first parts of words which are alike in their last components produces an exceptional disregard of the normal patterns of stress of Chinese and Japanese . 
Sometimes strong stress serves to focus an important secondary relationship . 
Thus in Mary wrote an account of the trip first strong stress on Mary marks Mary as the first in a series of people who wrote accounts of the trip , strong stress on wrote marks the writing as the first of a series of actions of Mary's concerned with an account of her trip ( about which she may later have made speeches , for example ) , and strong stress on trip makes the trip the first of a series of subjects about which Mary wrote accounts . 
In hunger stimulates man too the situation is very similar . 
Strong stress on hunger treats hunger as an additional stimulus , strong stress on stimulates treats stimulation as an additional effect of hunger , strong stress on man treats man as an additional creature who responds to the stimulation of hunger . 
Here again , in the written language it is possible to help the reader get his stresses right by using underlining or italics , but much of the time there is simply reliance on his understanding in the light of context . 
When a word represents a larger construction of which it is the only expressed part , it normally has more stress than it would have in fully expressed construction . 
Thus when yes , I have is the response to have you finished reading the paper ? 
The stress on have , which here represents have finished reading the paper , is quite strong . 
In Mack's the leader at camp , but Jack is here the is of the second main declarative represents is the leader and therefore has stress . 
Mack's the leader at camp , but Jack's here , with this is deprived of stress , makes here the complement in the clause . 
In of all the suggestions that were made , his was the silliest the possessive his represents his suggestion and is stressed . 
When go represents itself and a complement ( being equivalent , say , to go to Martinique ) in which boat did Jack go on ? 
It has strong stress ; ; when it represents only itself and on which is its complement ( so that go on is semantically equivalent to board ) , on has stronger stress than go does . 
Omission of a subordinator pronoun , however , does not result in an increase in stress on a prepositional adverb for which the subordinator pronoun would be object . 
Thus to has light stress both in that was the conclusion that I came to and in that was the conclusion I came to . 
But when to represents to consciousness in that was the moment that I came to , and similarly in that was the moment I came to , there is much stronger stress on to . 
In I wanted to tell him , but I was afraid to the final to is lightly stressed because it represents to tell him . 
In to tell him , of course , to is normally unstressed . 
When I have instructions to leave is equivalent in meaning to I have instructions that I am to leave this place , dominant stress is ordinarily on leave . 
When the same sequence is equivalent in meaning to I have instructions which I am to leave , dominant stress is ordinarily on instructions . 
It is clear that patterns of stress sometimes show construction unambiguously in the spoken language where without the help of context it would be ambiguous in the written . 
Other examples follow . 
`` I'll come by Tuesday . 
I can't be happy long without drinking water '' . 
In the first of these sentences if by is the complement of come and Tuesday is an adjunct of time equivalent to on Tuesday , there will be strong stress on by in the spoken language ; ; but if a complement for come is implied and by Tuesday is a prepositional unit used as an adjunct , by will be unstressed or lightly stressed at most . 
In the second sentence if drinking water is a gerundial clause and without drinking water is roughly equivalent in meaning to unless I drink water , there will be stronger stress on water than on drinking ; ; but if drinking is a gerundial noun modifying water and without drinking water is equivalent to without water for drinking , there will be stronger stress on drinking than on water . 
But the use of stress in comparison and contrast , for example , can undermine distinctions such as these . 
And patterns of stress are not always unambiguous by any means . 
In the Steiners have busy lives without visiting relatives only context can indicate whether visiting relatives is equivalent in meaning to paying visits to relatives or to relatives who are visiting them , and in I looked up the number and I looked up the chimney only the meanings of number and chimney make it clear that up is syntactically a second complement in the first sentence and a preposition followed by its object in the second . 
Syllabification . 
-- Syllables are linguistic units centering in peaks which are usually vocalic but , as has been noted , are consonantal under certain circumstances , and which may or may not be combined with preceding and/or following consonants or combinations of consonants . 
Syllables are genuine units , but division of words and sentences into them presents great difficulties . 
Sometimes even the number of syllables is not clear . 
Doubt on this point is strongest before /l/ and AAb/ or /r/ . 
From the point of view of word formation real might be expected to have two syllables . 
Historically re is the formative that is employed also in republic , and al is the common suffix . 
When ity is added , real clearly has two syllables . 
But there is every reason to regard deal as a monosyllable , and because of the fact that /l/ commonly has the quality of AAb/ when it follows vowel sounds , deal seems to be a perfectly satisfactory rhyme with deal . 
It is obvious enough that linguists in general have been less successful in coping with tone systems than with consonants or vowels . 
No single explanation is adequate to account for this . 
Improvement , however , is urgent , and at least three things will be needed . 
The first is a wide-ranging sample of successful tonal analyses . 
Even beginning students in linguistics are made familiar with an appreciable variety of consonant systems , both in their general outlines and in many specific details . 
An advanced student has read a considerable number of descriptions of consonantal systems , including some of the more unusual types . 
By contrast , even experienced linguists commonly know no more of the range of possibilities in tone systems than the over-simple distinction between register and contour languages . 
This limited familiarity with the possible phenomena has severely hampered work with tone . 
Tone analysis will continue to be difficult and unsatisfactory until a more representative selection of systems is familar to every practicing field linguist . 
Papers like these four , if widely read , will contribute importantly to improvement of our analytic work . 
The second need is better field techniques . 
The great majority of present-day linguists fall into one or more of a number of overlapping types : those who are convinced that tone cannot be analysed , those who are personally scared of tone and tone languages generally , those who are convinced that tone is merely an unnecessary marginal feature in those languages where it occurs , those who have no idea how to proceed with tone analysis , those who take a simplistic view of the whole matter . 
The result has been neglect , fumbling efforts , or superficial treatment . 
As these maladies overlap , so must the cure . 
Analyses such as these four will simultaneously combat the assumptions that tone is impossible and that it is simple . 
They will give suggestions that can be worked up into field procedures . 
Good field techniques will not only equip linguists for better work , but also help them overcome negative attitudes . 
Actually , none of these papers says much directly about field techniques . 
But it is worth pondering that very little has been published on any phase of field techniques in linguistics . 
These things have been disseminated by other means , but always in the wake of extensive publication of analytic results . 
The third need is for better theory . 
We should expect that general phonologic theory should be as adequate for tone as for consonants and vowels , but it has not been . 
This can only be for one of two reasons : either the two are quite different and will require totally different theory ( and hence techniques ) , or our existing theories are insufficiently general . 
If , as I suspect , the problem is largely of the second sort , then development of a theory better able to handle tone will result automatically in better theory for all phonologic subsystems . 
One issue that must be faced is the relative difficulty of analysis of different phonologic subsystems . 
Since tone systems typically comprise fewer units than either consonant or vowel systems , we might expect that they would be the easiest part of a phonologic analysis . 
Actual practice does not often work out this way . 
Tone systems are certainly more complex than the number of units would suggest , and often analytically more difficult than much larger consonantal systems . 
Welmers has suggested one explanation . 
Tone languages use for linguistic contrasts speech parameters which also function heavily in nonlinguistic use . 
This may both divert the attention of the uninitiate and cause confusion for the more knowledgeable . 
The problem is to disentangle the linguistic features of pitch from the co-occurring nonlinguistic features . 
Of course , something of the same sort occurs with other sectors of the phonology : consonantal articulations have both a linguistic and an individual component . 
But in general the individual variation is a small thing added onto basic linguistic features of greater magnitude . 
With tone , individual differences may be greater than the linguistic contrasts which are superimposed on them . 
Pitch differences from one speaker to another , or from one emotional state to another , may far exceed the small differences between tones . 
However , any such suggestion accounts for only some of the difficulties in hearing tone , or in developing a realistic attitude about tone , but not for the analytic difficulties that occur even when tone is meticulously recorded . 
A second explanation is suggested by the material described in Rowlands' paper . 
Tone and intonation often become seriously intermeshed . 
Neither can be adequately systematized until we are able to separate the two and assign the observed phenomena individually to one or the other . 
Other pairs of phonologic subsystems also interact or overlap in this way ; ; for example , duration sometimes figures in both the vowel system and the intonation . 
Some phonetic features , for example glottal catch or murmur , are sometimes to be assigned to segmental phonemics and sometimes to accentual systems . 
But no other two phonologic systems are as difficult to disentangle as are tone and intonation in some languages . 
This explanation of tone difficulties , however , does not apply in all languages . 
In some ( the Ewe type mentioned above ) interaction of tone and intonation is restricted to the ends of intonation spans . 
In many of the syllables , intonation can be safely ignored , and much of the tonal analysis can be done without any study of intonation . 
Still , even in such languages tone analysis has not been as simple as one might expect . 
A third explanation is suggested by Richardson's analysis of Sukuma tone . 
There we see a basically simple phonemic system enmeshed in a very complex and puzzling morphophonemic system . 
While the phonemes can be very easily stated , no one is likely to be satisfied with the statement until phonemic occurrences can be related in some way to morphemic units , i.e. until the morphophonemics is worked out , or at least far enough that it seems reasonable to expect success . 
In the `` typical tone language '' , tonal morphophonemics is of the same order of complexity as consonantal morphophonemics . 
The phonemic systems which must support these morphophonemic systems , however , are very different . 
The inventory of tones is much smaller , and commonly the contrasts range along one single dimension , pitch level . 
Consonantal systems are not merely larger , they are multidimensional . 
Morphophonemic rules may be thought of as joining certain points in the system . 
The possibilities in the consonantal system are very numerous , and only a small portion of them are actually used . 
Phonemes connected by a morphophonemic rule commonly show a good bit of phonetic similarity , possible because of the several dimensions of contrast in the system . 
Tonal morphophonemics , in a common case , can do nothing but either raise or lower the tone . 
The possibilities are few , and the total number of rules may be considerably greater . 
Often , therefore , there are a number of rules having the same effect , and commonly other sets of rules as well , having the opposite effect . 
Tonal morphophonemics is much more confusing to the beginning analyst than consonantal morphophonemics , even when the total number of rules is no greater . 
The difficulty of analysis of any subsystem in the phonology is an inverse function of the size -- smaller systems are more troublesome -- for any given degree of morphophonemic complexity . 
This hypothesis will account for a large part of the difficulties of tonal analysis , as well as the fact that vowel systems are often more puzzling than consonantal systems . 
The statement of the system is a different matter . 
Smaller systems can of course be stated much more succinctly . 
A phonemic system can be stated without reference to morphophonemics , but it cannot always be found without morphophonemics . 
And the more complex the morphophonemic system is in relation to the phonemic base , the less easily a phonemic system will be analysed without close attention to the morphophonemics -- at least , the less satisfying will a phonemic statement be if it cannot be related through morphophonemic rules to grammatically meaningful structures . 
The design of orthographies has received much less attention from linguists than the problem deserves . 
There has been a tendency on the part of many American linguists to assume that a phonemic transcription will automatically be the best possible orthography and that the only real problem will then be the social one of securing acceptance . 
This seems naive . 
Most others have been content to give only the most general attention to the broadest and most obvious features of the phonology when designing orthographies . 
Apparently the feeling is that anything more would be involvement in technical abstrusenesses of possible pedantic interest but of no visible significance in practical affairs . 
The result of this attitude has been the domination of many orthography conferences by such considerations as typographic ' esthetics ' , which usually turns out to be nothing more than certain prejudices carried over from European languages . 
Many of the suggested systems seem to have only the most tenuous relationship to the language structures that they purport to represent . 
Linguists have not always been more enlightened than `` practical people '' and sometimes have insisted on incredibly trivial points while neglecting things of much greater significance . 
As a result , many people have been confirmed in their conviction that orthography design is not an activity to which experts can contribute anything but confusion . 
A. E. Sharp , in Vowel-Length And Syllabicity In Kikuyu , examines one set of related orthographic questions and its phonologic background in detail . 
His objective is merely to determine `` what distinctions of length and syllabicity it may be desirable to make explicit in a Kikuyu orthography '' ( 59 ) . 
To do so , he finds it necessary to examine the relevant parts of the phonology thoroughly and in detail . 
In the process , he develops some very significant observations about problems of a sort that are often difficult . 
A few of his examples are of very great interest , and the whole discussion of some importance for theory . 
His orthographic recommendations are no simplistic acceptance of phonemics on the one hand or of superficiality on the other . 
Rather he weighs each phonologic fact in the light of its orthographic usefulness . 
He concludes that some changes can be made in the current orthography which will appreciably improve its usefulness , but hesitates to suggest precise graphic devices to effect these changes . 
I hope his suggestions are given the consideration they deserve in Kikuyu circles . 
This , however , will not exhaust their practical usefulness , as they rather clearly indicate what thorough phonologic investigation can contribute to orthography design . 
We need many more studies of this sort if the design of written languages is to be put on a sound basis . 
One other paper deals with a phonologic problem : Vowel Harmony In Igbo , by J. Carnochan . 
This restates the already widely known facts in terms of prosodies . 
As a restatement it makes only a small contribution to knowledge of Igbo . 
But it would seem more intended as a tract advocating the prosodic theory than a paper directed to the specific problems of Igbo phonology . 
The paper has a certain value as a comparatively easy introduction to this approach , particularly since it treats a fairly simple and straightforward phenomenon where it is possible to compare it with a more traditional ( though not structural ) statement . 
It does show one feature of the system that has not been previously described . 
But it does not , as it claims , demonstrate that this could not be treated by traditional methods . 
It seems to me that it rather easily can . 
Five of the papers deal with grammatical problems . 
On the whole they maintain much the same high standard , but they are much more difficult to discuss in detail because of their wider variety of subject matter . 
My comments must be briefer than the papers deserve . 
W. H. Whiteley writes on The Verbal Radical In Iraqw . 
This must be considered primarily an amendment and supplement to his early A Short Description Of Item-Categories In Iraqw . 
It exhibits much the same descriptive technique and is open to much the same criticisms . 
The treatment seems unnecessarily loose-jointed and complex , largely because the method is lax and the analysis seems never to be pushed to a satisfactory or even a consistent stopping-point . 
There are more stems per item in Athabascan , which expresses the fact that the Athabascan languages have undergone somewhat more change in diverging from proto-Athabascan than the Yokuts languages from proto-Yokuts . 
This may be because the Athabascan divergence began earlier ; ; or again because the Athabascan languages spread over a very much larger territory ( including three wholly separated areas ) ; ; or both . 
The differentiation , however , is not very much greater , as shown by the fact that Athabascan shows 3.46 stems per meaning slot as against 2.75 for Yokuts , with a slightly greater number of languages represented in our sample : 24 as against 21 . 
( On deduction of one-eighth from 3.46 , the stem / item rate becomes 3.03 against 2.75 in equivalent number of languages . 
) These general facts are mentioned to make clear that the total situation in the two families is similar enough to warrant comparison . 
The greatest difference in the two sets of figures is due to differences in the two sets of lists used . 
These differences in turn result from the fact that my Yokuts vocabularies were built up of terms selected mainly to insure unambiguity of English meaning between illiterate informants and myself , within a compact and uniform territorial area , but that Hoijer's vocabulary is based on Swadesh's second glottochronological list which aims at eliminating all items which might be culturally or geographically determined . 
Swadesh in short was trying to develop a basic list that was universal ; ; I , one that was specifically adapted to the San Joaquin Valley . 
The result is that I included 70 animal names , but Swadesh only 4 ; ; and somewhat similarly for plants , 16 as against 4 . 
Swadesh , and therefore Hoijer , felt compelled to omit all terms denoting species or even genera ( ox , vulture , salmon , yellow pine , manzanita ) ; ; their classes of animal and plant terms are restricted to generalizations or recurrent parts ( fish , bird , tree , grass , horn , tail , bark , root ) . 
The groups are therefore really non-comparable in content as well as in size . 
Other classes are included only by myself ( interrogatives , adverbs ) or only by Swadesh and Hoijer ( pronouns , demonstratives ) . 
What we have left as reasonably comparable are four classes : ( 1 ) body parts and products , which with a proportionally nearly even representation ( 51 terms out of 253 , 25 out of 100 ) come out with nearly even ratios ; ; 2.6 and 2.7 ; ; ( 2 ) Nature ( 29 terms against 17 ) , ratios 3.3 versus 4.1 ; ; ( 3 ) adjectives ( 16 , 15 terms ) , ratios 3.9 versus 4.7 ; ; ( 4 ) verbs ( 9 , 22 terms ) , ratios 4.0 versus 3.4 . 
It will be seen that where the scope is similar , the Athabascan ratios come out somewhat higher ( as indeed they ought to with a total ratio of 2.8 as against 3.5 or 4 : 5 ) except for verbs , where alone the Athabascan ratio is lower . 
This exception may be connected with Hoijer's use of a much higher percentage of verbs : 22% of his total list as against 3.5% in mine . 
Or the exception may be due to a particular durability peculiar to the Athabascan verb . 
More word class ratios determined in more languages will no doubt ultimately answer the question . 
5 . 
If word classes differ in their resistance or liability to stem replacement within meaning slot , it is conceivable that individual meanings also differ with fair consistence trans-lingually . 
Hoijer's Athabascan and my Yokuts share 71 identical meanings ( with allowance for several near-synonyms like stomach-belly , big-large , long-far , many-much , die-dead , say-speak ) . 
For Yokuts , I tabulated these 71 items in five columns , according as they were expressed by 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , and more than 4 stems . 
The totals for these five categories are not too uneven , namely 20 , 15 , 11 , 16 , 9 respectively . 
For Athabascan , with a greater range of stems , the first two of five corresponding columns were identical , 1 and 2 stems ; ; the three others had to be spread somewhat , and are headed respectively Af ; ; Af ; ; and Af stems . 
While the particular limits of these groupings may seem artificially arbitrary , they do fairly express a corresponding grouping of more variable material , and they eventuate also in five classes , along a similar scale , containing approximately equal numbers of cases , namely 19 , 14 , 15 , 11 , 12 in Athabascan . 
When now we count the frequency of the 71 items in the two language families appearing in the same column or grade , or one column or grade apart , or two or three or four , we find these differences : Af . 
This distribution can be summarized by averaging the distance in grades apart : Af ; ; which , divided by Af gives a mean of 1.07 grades apart . 
If the distribution of the 71 items were wholly concordant in the two families , the distance would of course be 0 . 
If it were wholly random and unrelated , it would be 2.0 , assuming the five classes were equal in n , which approximately they are . 
The actual mean of 1.07 being about halfway between 0 of complete correlation and 2.0 of no correlation , it is evident that there is a pretty fair degree of similarity in the behavior even of particular individual items of meaning as regards long-term stem displacement . 
6 . 
In 1960 , David D. Thomas published Basic Vocabulary In some Mon-Khmer Languages ( AL 2 , No. 3 , pp. 7 - 11 ) , which compares 8 Mon-Khmer languages with the I-E language data on which Swadesh based the revised retention rate ( Af ) in place of original ( Af ) , and his revised 100 word basic glottochronological list in Towards Greater Accuracy ( IJAL 21 : : 121 - 137 ) . 
Thomas' findings are , first , `` that the individual items vary greatly and unpredictably in their persistence '' ; ; but , second , `` that the semantic groups are surprisingly unvarying in their average persistence '' ( as between M-K and I-E ) . 
His first conclusion , on behavior of individual items , is negative , whereas mine ( on Ath. and Yok. ) was partially positive . 
His second conclusion , on semantic word classes , agrees with mine . 
This second conclusion , independently arrived at by independent study of material from two pairs of language families as different and remote from one another as these four are , cannot be ignored . 
Thomas also presents a simple equation for deriving an index of persistence , which weights not only the number of stems ( ' roots ' ) per meaning , but their relative frequency . 
Thus his persistence values for some stem frequencies per meaning are : stem identical in 8 languages , 100% ; ; stem frequencies 7 and 1 , 86% ; ; stem frequencies 4 and 4 , 64% ; ; stem frequencies 4 , 3 , and 1 , 57% . 
His formula will have to be weighed , may be altered or improved , and it should be tested on additional bodies of material . 
But consideration of the frequency of stems per constant meaning seems to be established as having significance in comparative situations with diachronic and classificatory relevance ; ; and Gleason presumably is on the way with a further contribution in this area . 
As to relative frequencies of competing roots ( 7 - 1 vs. 4 - 4 , etc. ) , Thomas with his ' weighting ' seems to be the first to have considered the significance this might have . 
The problem needs further exploration . 
I was at least conscious of the distinction in my full Yokuts presentation that awaits publication , in which , in listing ' Two-Stem Meanings ' , I set off by asterisks those forms in which N of stem B was Af of stem A/3 , the unasterisked ones standing for Af ; ; or under ' Four Stems ' , I set off by asterisks cases where the combined N of stems Af was Af . 
7 . 
These findings , and others which will in time be developed , will affect the method of glottochronological inquiry . 
If adjectival meanings show relatively low retentiveness of stems , as I am confident will prove to be the case in most languages of the world , why should our basic lists include 15 per cent of these unstable forms , but only 8 per cent of animals and plants which replace much more slowly ? 
Had Hoijer substituted for his 15 adjectival slots 15 good animal and plant items , his rate of stem replacement would have been lower and the age of Athabascan language separation smaller . 
And irrespective of the outcome in centuries elapsed since splitting , calculations obviously carry more concordant and comparable meaning if they deal with the most stable units than with variously unstable ones . 
It is evident that Swadesh has not only had much experience with basic vocabulary in many languages but has acquired great tact and feeling for the expectable behavior of lexical items . 
Why then this urge to include unstable items in his basic list ? 
It is the urge to obtain a list as free of geographical and cultural conditioning as possible . 
And why that insistence ? 
It is the hope of attaining a list of items of universal occurrence . 
But it is becoming increasingly evident that such a hope is a snare . 
Not that such a list cannot be constructed ; ; but the nearer it comes to attaining universality , the less significant will it be linguistically . 
Its terms will tend to be labile or vague , and they will fit actual languages more and more badly . 
The practical operational problem of lexicostatistics is the establishment of a basic list of items of meaning against which the particular forms or terms of languages can be matched as the medium of comparison . 
The most important quality of the meanings is that they should be as definable as possible . 
In proportion as meanings are concrete , we can better rely on their being insulated and distinctive . 
An elephant or a fox or a swan or a cocopalm or a banana possess in unusually high degree this quality of obvious , common-sense , indubitable identity , as do an eye or tooth or nail . 
They isolate out easily , naturally , and unambiguously from the continuum of nature and existence ; ; and they should be given priority in the basic list as long as they continue to show these qualities . 
With the universal list as his weapon , Swadesh has extended his march of conquest farther and farther into the past , eight , ten , twelve millennia back . 
And he has proclaimed greater or less affiliation between all Western hemisphere languages . 
Some of this may prove to be true , or even considerable of it , whether by genetic ramification or by diffusion and coalescence . 
But the farther out he moves , the thinner will be his hold on conclusive evidence , and the larger the speculative component in his inferences . 
He has traversed provinces and kingdoms , but he has not consolidated them behind him , nor does he control them . 
He has announced results on Hokan , Penutian , Uto-Aztecan , and almost all other American families and phyla , and has diagrammed their degree of interrelation ; ; but he has not worked out by lexicostatistics one comprehensively complete classification of even a single family other than Salish . 
That is his privilege . 
The remote , cloudy , possible has values of its own -- values of scope , stimulus , potential , and imagination . 
But there is also a firm aspect to lexicostatistics : the aspect of learning the internal organization of obvious natural genetic groups of languages as well as their more remote and elusive external links ; ; of classification first , with elapsed age merely a by-product ; ; of acquiring evidential knowledge of what happened in Athabascan , in Yokuts , in Uto-Aztecan in the last few thousand years as well as forecasting what more anciently may have happened between them . 
This involves step-by-step progress , and such will have to be the day-by-day work of lexicostatistics as a growing body of scientific inquiry . 
If of the founders of glottochronology Swadesh has escaped our steady plodding , and Lees has repudiated his own share in the founding , that is no reason why we should swerve . 
8 . 
There is no apparent reason why we should feel bound by Swadesh's rules and procedure since his predilections and aims have grown so vast . 
It seems time to consider a revision of operational procedures for lexicostatistic studies on a more humble , solid , and limited basis . 
I would propose , first , an abandonment of attempts at a universal lexical list , as intrinsically unachievable , and operationally inadequate in proportion as it is achieved . 
I would propose , next , as the prime requirement for constitution of new basic lists , items whose forms show as high an empirical retention rate as possible . 
There would be no conceivable sense in going to the opposite extreme of selecting items whose forms are the most unstable . 
An attempted middle course might lead to devices like a 5000-word alphabetized dictionary from which every fiftieth word was selected . 
Doubtless it was inevitable that differences of opinion should arise about the methods for applying these policies . 
It was nevertheless almost incredible that four years after Yalta there should be a complete split over Germany , with hot heads on both sides planning to use the Germans against their former allies , and with Nazi-minded Germans expecting to recover their power by fighting on one side or the other . 
5 . 
Poland frontiers . 
When the Yalta Conference opened , the American policy of postponing all discussion of Russia's western boundaries until the peace conference had broken down . 
Starting in great force late in December , from a line stretching from East Prussia to Budapest , the Red armies had swept two hundred miles across Poland to the Oder , thirty miles from Berlin , and the Upper Danube region was being rapidly overrun , while the Western Allies had not yet occupied all of the left bank of the Rhine . 
The long delay in opening the Second Front was now working to Russia's advantage . 
The West was now glad to propose the 1919 Curzon Line , which was substantially Russia's 1941 border , as the boundary between Russia and Poland . 
When this proposal was made , Stalin spoke with stronger emotion than at any other time during the Conference . 
He stood up to emphasize his strong feeling on the subject . 
The bitter memory of Russia's exclusion from the Paris Peace Conference and of the West's effort to stamp out Bolshevism at its birth boiled up within him . 
`` You would drive us into shame '' , he declared . 
The White Russians and the Ukrainians would say that Stalin and Molotov were far less reliable defenders of Russia than Curzon and Clemenceau . 
Yet after long and earnest discussion Stalin accepted the Curzon Line and even agreed voluntarily that there should be digressions from that line of five to eight kilometers in favor of Poland in some regions . 
He did not mind the Line itself , which Churchill declared in the House of Commons , on February 27 , 1945 , he had always believed to be `` just and right '' , but he did not want it called by a hated name . 
The West had long since forgotten the events of 1919 , but it was not so easy for the Red leaders , who felt that they had suffered great injustice in that period . 
In the Dunn-Atherton memorandum of February 4 , 1942 , the State Department had expected to be able to hold Russia in check by withholding agreement to her 1941 boundaries . 
Now Stalin made it clear that he meant to move Poland's western borders deep into Germany , back to the western Neisse-Oder River lines , taking not only East Prussia and all of Silesia but Pomerania and the tip of Brandenburg , back to and including Stettin . 
From six to nine million additional Germans would be evicted , though most would have fled , and Poland would receive far more from Germany than the poor territories , including the great Pripet Marshes , which she lost to Russia . 
Stalin declared that he preferred to continue the war a little longer , `` although it costs us blood '' , in order to give Poland compensation in the West at the expense of the Germans . 
By this time Churchill was not so cordial toward moving Poland westward as he had been at Teheran , where he and Eden had both heartily approved the idea . 
After `` a prolonged study of the Oder line on a map '' , at Teheran , Churchill `` liked the picture '' . 
He would tell the Poles , he said , that they had been `` given a fine place to live in , more than three hundred miles each way '' . 
At Yalta he thought more about the six million Germans who would have to leave , trying to find work in Germany , and Roosevelt objected to the Western Neisse River being chosen in the south , instead of the Eastern Neisse , both of which flow into the Oder . 
The issue was left in abeyance , presumably for the peace conference . 
However , there was no real question of the justice of creating a strong Poland , both industrially and agriculturally , and one unplagued by large minorities of Germans or Russians . 
The moving of millions of the German master-race , from the very heart of Junkerdom , to make room for the Polish Slavs whom they had enslaved and openly planned to exterminate was a drastic operation , but there was little doubt that it was historically justified . 
Government . 
Of more importance to the West than Poland's boundaries was the character of her government . 
At Yalta the West still believed that Eastern Europe could be kept in its orbit , in spite of the onrushing Soviet armies . 
Though little democracy had ever been practised in this region , and much of it was still ruled by feudalistic means , it was taken for granted that at least the forms of Western democracy would be established in this area and Western capitalism preserved within it . 
Believing devoutly as they did in Anglo-Saxon institutions , it was important to both Roosevelt and Churchill that the Poles should have them . 
The issue was acute because the exiled Polish Government in London , supported in the main by Britain , was still competing with the new Lublin Government formed behind the Red Army . 
More time was spent in trying to marry these incompatibles than over any subject discussed at Yalta . 
The result was an agreement that the Lublin Government should be `` reorganized on a broader democratic basis with the inclusion of democratic leaders from Poland itself and from the Poles abroad '' , and pledged to hold `` free and unfettered elections as soon as possible on the basis of universal suffrage and secret ballot '' . 
All `` democratic and anti-Nazi parties '' were to have the right to campaign . 
Roosevelt acted as moderator of the long debate on this issue . 
It was a matter of principle with Churchill , since Britain had declared war in behalf of Poland . 
To Stalin it was a matter of life and death . 
He made this completely clear . 
Speaking with `` great earnestness '' , he said : `` For the Russian people , the question of Poland is not only a question of honor but also a question of security . 
Throughout history , Poland has been the corridor through which the enemy has passed into Russia . 
Twice in the last thirty years our enemies , the Germans , have passed through this corridor . 
It is in Russia's interest that Poland should be strong and powerful , in a position to shut the door of this corridor by her own force . 
It is necessary that Poland should be free , independent in power . 
Therefore , it is not only a question of honor but of life and death for the Soviet state '' . 
In other words , the Soviet Union was determined to create a Poland so strong as to be a powerful bulwark against Germany and so closely tied to Russia that there would never be any question of her serving as a cordon sanitaire against the Soviets or posing as an independent , balancing power in between Russia and Germany . 
Byrnes says that invariably thereafter the Soviets used the same security argument to justify their course in Poland . 
This reasoning was also as inevitable as anything could be . 
Any free elections that were to be held in Poland would have to produce a government in which Moscow had complete confidence , and all pressure from the West for free voting by anti-Soviet elements in Poland would be met by restrictions on voting by these elements . 
6 . 
Liberated Europe In even greater degree the same rule applied to the remainder of Eastern Europe , where the upper classes had generally collaborated with the Nazis , even to the extent of sending millions of their peasants into Russia as a part of Hitler's armies . 
But at Yalta the conflicting expectations of East and West were merged into an agreement by the Big Three to assist all liberated countries in Europe `` to create democratic institutions of their own choice '' . 
In any case `` here in their judgment conditions require '' ( italics added ) they would `` form interim governmental authorities broadly representative of all democratic elements in the population and pledged to the earliest possible establishment through free elections of governments responsive to the will of the people '' . 
Other similar affirmations in the Declaration on Liberated Europe seemed to assure democratic institutions on the Western model . 
Later it developed that the Soviets had a very different interpretation of democracy , which will be discussed later , and their judgment never told them that the Big Three should unite in establishing democratic conditions , as we understand them , within their zone of influence . 
Professor McNeill thinks that at Yalta , Stalin did not fully realize the dilemma which faced him , that he thought the exclusion of the anti-Soviet voters from East European elections would not be greatly resented by his allies , while neither Roosevelt nor Churchill frankly faced `` the fact that , in Poland at least , genuinely free democratic elections would return governments unfriendly to Russia '' , by any definition of international friendliness . 
Also war-time propaganda and cooperation had `` obscured the differences between Russian and Western ideas of democracy '' , and it seemed better to have them covered by verbal formulae than to imperil the military victories over Germany and Japan . 
The application of these formulae could not please both sides , for they really attempted to marry the impossible to the inevitable . 
While obliged to concede governments in East Europe allied with the Soviet Union instead of opposed to it , we thought we had preserved our social and economic system in East Europe . 
This illusion was described in a far-sighted editorial in The New York Herald Tribune , on March 5 , 1947 , in connection with the submission of the satellite peace treaties to the Senate . 
In doing so Marshall and Byrnes were `` asking for the ratification of a grim lesson in the facts of international life '' . 
We had entertained exaggerated ideas about our victory automatically establishing our system throughout the world . 
`` We were troubled about the fate of the Baltic States . 
Yalta left us with comforting illusions of a Western capitalist-democratic political economy reigning supreme up to the Curzon line and the borders of Bessarabia '' ( Italics added ) . 
This is a penetrating description of our post-war illusion , which applied to other areas than East Europe . 
The same editorial continued that `` We expected to democratize Japan and Korea and to see a new China pattern itself easily on our institutions . 
We expected , in short , that most of the world would make itself over in our image and that it would be relatively simple , from such a position , to deal with the localized aberrations of the Soviet Union '' . 
Yet actually `` the image corresponded in no way to the actualities of the post-war world . 
Neither our military , our economic nor our ideological power reached far enough '' to determine the fate of East Europe . 
Then the editorial added prophetically : `` how far they may reach in Asia is yet undetermined , but they fall far short of our dreams of the war conferences '' . 
Here is the best short explanation of the origins of the Cold War that has been written . 
Failing to heed the lesson so clearly contained in the satellite treaties , President Truman re-declared the Cold War on March 12 , 1947 , in the Truman Doctrine , exactly one week after the Herald Tribune editorial was written , and a year after the Cold War had been announced by Churchill at Fulton , Missouri , in Truman's presence . 
Then China promptly went Communist , and Mr. Truman had to fight the interminable Korean war for the democratization of Korea before we learned how far our writ did `` reach in Asia '' . 
Years of war , strain , and hatred ; ; of heavy arms expenditures and constant danger of another world war had to ensue before the United States could bring itself to accept the two chief results of World War 2 , -- Communist control of East Europe and China -- a new balance of power . 
While the Cold War raged it was easy to blame it all on Yalta . 
Yet , in summarizing a series of careful essays on the Yalta Conference , Forrest Pogue could find no basis for Yalta becoming `` a symbol for betrayal and a shibboleth for the opponents of Roosevelt and international cooperation '' . 
When the Yalta Papers were finally published with great fanfare they had revealed no betrayal by anyone . 
An analysis of the election falls naturally in four parts . 
First is the long and still somewhat obscure process of preparation , planning and discussion . 
Preparation began slightly more than a year after independence with the first steps to organize rural communes . 
All political interests supported electoral planning , although there are some signs that the inherent uncertainties of a popular judgment led to some procrastination . 
The second major aspect of the election is the actual procedure of registration , nomination and voting . 
Considerable technical skill was used and the administration of the elections was generally above reproach . 
However , the regionally differentiated results , which appear below in tables , are interesting evidence of the problems of developing self-government under even the most favorable circumstances . 
A third aspect , and probably the one open to most controversy , is the results of the election . 
The electoral procedure prevented the ready identification of party affiliation , but all vitally interested parties , including the government itself , were busily engaged in determining the party identifications of all successful candidates the month following the elections . 
The fourth and concluding point will be to estimate the long-run significance of the elections and how they figure in the current pattern of internal politics . 
Elections have figured prominently in nearly every government program and official address since independence . 
They were stressed in the speeches of Si Mubarak Bekkai when the first Council of Ministers was formed and again when the Istiqlal took a leading role in the second Council . 
King Muhammad 5 , was known to be most sympathetic to the formation of local self-government and made the first firm promise of elections on May Day , 1957 . 
There followed a long and sometimes bitter discussion of the feasibility of elections for the fall of 1957 , in which it appears that the Minister of the Interior took the most pessimistic view and that the Istiqlal was something less than enthusiastic . 
Since the complicated process of establishing new communes and reviewing the rudimentary plan left by the French did not even begin until the fall of 1957 , this goal appears somewhat ambitious . 
From the very beginning the electoral discussions raised fundamental issues in Moroccan politics , precisely the type of questions that were most difficult to resolve in the new government . 
Until the Charter of Liberties was issued in the fall of 1958 , there were no guarantees of the right to assemble or to organize for political purposes . 
The Istiqlal was still firmly united in 1957 , but the P.D.I. ( Parti Democratique de l'Independance ) , the most important minor party at the time , objected to the Istiqlal's predominance in the civil service and influence in Radio Maroc . 
There were rumors that the Ministry of the Interior favored an arbitrary , `` non-political '' process , which were indirectly affirmed when the King personally intervened in the planned meetings . 
The day following his intervention the palace issued a statement reassuring the citizens that `` the possibility of introducing appeals concerning the establishment of electoral lists , lists of candidates and finally the holding of the consultation itself '' would be supported by the King himself . 
The Ifni crisis in the fall of 1957 postponed further consideration of elections , but French consultants were called in and notices of further investigation appeared from time to time . 
In January , 1958 , the Minister of the Interior announced that an election law was ready to be submitted to the King , the rumors of election dates appeared once again , first for spring of 1958 and later for the summer . 
Although the government was probably prepared for elections by mid-1958 , the first decision was no doubt made more difficult as party strife multiplied . 
In late 1957 the M.P. ( Mouvement Populaire ) appeared and in the spring of 1958 the internal strains of the Istiqlal was revealed when the third Council of Government under Balafrej was formed without support from progressive elements in the party . 
The parties were on the whole unprepared for elections , while the people were still experiencing post-independence let-down and suffering the after-effects of poor harvests in 1957 . 
Despite the internal and international crises that harassed Morocco the elections remained a central issue . 
They figured prominently in the Balafrej government of May , 1958 , which the King was reportedly determined to keep in office until elections could be held . 
But the eagerly sought `` homogeneity '' of the Balafrej Council of Government was never achieved as the Istiqlal quarreled over foreign policy , labor politics and economic development . 
By December , 1958 , when ' Abdallah Ibrahim became President of the Council , elections had even greater importance . 
They were increasingly looked upon as a means of establishing the new rural communes as the focus of a new , constructive national effort . 
To minimize the chances of repeating the Balafrej debacle the Ibrahim government was formed . 
A titre personnel and a special office was created in the Ministry of the Interior to plan and to conduct the elections . 
By this time there is little doubt but what election plans were complete . 
There remained only the delicate task of maneuvering the laws through the labyrinth of Palace politics and making a small number of policy decisions . 
From the rather tortuous history of electoral planning in Morocco an important point emerges concerning the first elections in a developing country and evaluating their results . 
In the new country the electoral process is considered as a means of resolving fundamental , and sometimes bitter , differences among leaders and also as a source of policy guidance . 
In the absence of a reservoir of political consensus each organized political group hopes that the elections will give them new prominence , but in a system where there is as yet no place for the less prominent . 
Lacking the respected and effective institutions that consensus helps provide , minority parties , such as the P.D.I. in 1957 and the progressive Istiqlal faction in 1958 , clamor for elections when out of power , but are not at all certain they wish to be controlled by popular choice when in power . 
Those in power tend to procrastinate and even to repudiate the electoral process . 
The tendency to treat elections as an instrument of self-interest rather than an instrument of national interest had two important effects on electoral planning in Morocco . 
At the central level the scrutin uninominal voting system was selected over some form of the scrutin de liste system , even though the latter had been recommended by Duverger and favored by all political parties . 
The choice of the single member district was dictated to a certain extent by problems of communication and understanding in the more remote areas of the country , but it also served to minimize the national political value of the elections . 
Although the elections were for local officials , it was not necessary to conduct the elections so as to prevent parties from publicly identifying their candidates . 
With multiple member districts the still fragmentary local party organizations could have operated more effectively and parties might have been encouraged to state their positions more clearly . 
Both parties and the Ministry of the Interior were busily at work after the elections trying to unearth the political affiliations of the successful candidates and , thereby , give the elections a confidential but known degree of national political significance . 
Since a national interpretation cannot be avoided it is unfortunate that the elections were not held in a way to maximize party responsibility and the educational effect of mass political participation . 
The general setting of the Moroccan election may also encourage the deterioration of local party organization . 
The concentration of effective power in Rabat leads not only to party bickering , but to distraction from local activity that might have had many auxiliary benefits in addition to contributing to more meaningful elections . 
Interesting evidence can be found in the results of the Chamber of Commerce elections , which took place three weeks before national elections . 
The Istiqlal-sponsored U.M.C.I.A. ( L'Union Marocaine Des Commercants , Industrialistes et Artisans ) was opposed by candidates of the new U.N.F.P. ( L'Union National Des Forces Populaires ) in nearly all urban centers . 
As the more conservative group with strong backing from wealthy businessmen , the U.M.C.I.A. was generally favored against the more progressive , labor-based U.N.F.P. . 
The newer party campaigned heavily , while the older , more confident party expected the Moroccan merchants and small businessmen to support them as they had done for many years . 
The local Istiqlal and U.M.C.I.A. offices did not campaign and lost heavily . 
The value of the elections was lost , both as an experiment in increased political participation and as a reliable indicator of commercial interest , as shown in Table 1 . 
The Chamber of Commerce elections were , of course , an important event in the preparation for rural commune elections . 
The U.N.F.P. learned that its urban organization , which depends heavily on U.M.T. support , was most effective . 
The Istiqlal found that the spontaneous solidarity of the independence struggle was not easily transposed to the more concrete , precise problems of internal politics . 
The overall effect was probably to stimulate more party activity in the communal elections than might have otherwise taken place . 
A second major point of this essay is to examine the formal arrangements for the elections . 
Although a somewhat technical subject , it has important political implications as the above discussion of the voting system indicated . 
Furthermore , the problems and solutions devised in the electoral experiences of the rapidly changing countries are often of comparative value and essential to evaluating election results . 
The sine qua non of the elections was naturally an impartial and standardized procedure . 
As the background discussion indicated there were frequently expressed doubts that a government dominated by either party could fairly administer elections . 
The P.D.I. and later the Popular Movement protected the Istiqlal's `` privileged position '' until the fall of Balafrej , and then the Istiqlal used the same argument , which it had previously ignored , against the pro-U.N.F.P. tendencies of the Ibrahim government . 
The bulk of the preparation had , of course , proceeded under the supervision of the Ministry of the Interior , whose officials are barred from party activity and probably generally disinterested in party politics . 
Apart from some areas of recurring trouble , like Bani Mellal , where inexperienced officials had been appointed , there is little evidence that local officials intervened in the electoral process . 
Centrally , however , the administrative problem was more complex and the sheer prestige of office was very likely an unfair advantage . 
The King decided to remove Ibrahim a week before elections and to institute a non-party Council of Government under his personal direction . 
Although the monarch had frequently asserted that the elections were to be without party significance , his action was an implicit admission that party identifications were a factor . 
The new Council was itself inescapably of political meaning , which was most clearly revealed in the absence of any U.N.F.P. members and the presence of several Istiqlal leaders . 
Since the details of the elections were settled the change of government had no direct effect on the technical aspects of the elections , and may have been more important as an indication of royal displeasure with the U.N.F.P. . 
Voting preparations began in the fall of 1959 , although the actual demarcation and planning for the rural communes was completed in 1958 . 
There were three major administrative tasks : the fixing of electoral districts , the registration of voters and the registration of candidates . 
Voter registration began in late November 1959 and continued until early January , 1960 . 
The government was most anxious that there be a respectable response . 
Periodic bulletins of the accomplishment in each province made the registration process into a kind of competition among provincial officials . 
A goal was fixed , as given in Table 2 , and attention focused on its fulfillment . 
The qualifications to vote were kept very simple . 
Both men and women of twenty-one years of age could register and vote upon presenting proof of residence and identification . 
There were liberal provisions for dispensation where documents or records were lacking . 
The police were disqualified along with certain categories of naturalized citizens , criminals and those punished for Protectorate activities . 
The registration figures given in Table 2 must be interpreted with caution since the estimate for eligible electors were made without the benefit of a reliable census . 
Unemployed older workers who have no expectation of securing employment in the occupation in which they are skilled should be able to secure counseling and retraining in an occupation with a future . 
Some vocational training schools provide such training , but the current need exceeds the facilities . 
Current programs The present Federal program of vocational education began in 1917 with the passage of the Smith-Hughes Act , which provided a continuing annual appropriation of $7 million to support , on a matching basis , state-administered programs of vocational education in agriculture , trades , industrial skills and home economics . 
Since 1917 some thirteen supplementary and related acts have extended this Federal program . 
The George-Barden Act of 1946 raised the previous increases in annual authorizations to $29 million in addition to the $7 million under the Smith Act . 
The Health Amendment Act of 1956 added $5 million for practical nurse training . 
The latest major change in this program was introduced by the National Defense Education Act of 1958 , Title 8 , of which amended the George-Barden Act . 
Annual authorizations of $15 million were added for area vocational education programs that meet national defense needs for highly skilled technicians . 
The Federal program of vocational education merely provides financial aid to encourage the establishment of vocational education programs in public schools . 
The initiative , administration and control remain primarily with the local school districts . 
Even the states remain primarily in an assisting role , providing leadership and teacher training . 
Federal assistance is limited to half of the total expenditure , and the state or local districts must pay at least half . 
The state may decide to encourage local programs by paying half of the cost , or the state may require the local district to bear this half or some part of it . 
Throughout the history of the program , state government expenditures in the aggregate have usually matched or exceeded the Federal expenditures , while local districts all together have spent more than either Federal or state governments . 
Today , Federal funds account for only one-fifth of the nation's expenditures for vocational education . 
The greatest impact of the matching-fund principle has been in initially encouraging the poorest states and school districts to spend enough to obtain their full allocation of outside funds . 
National defense considerations have been the major reason behind most Federal training expenditures in recent decades . 
During World War 2 , about 7.5 million persons were enrolled in courses organized under two special programs administered by state and local school authorities : ( 1 ) Vocational Education for National Defense , and ( 2 ) War Production Training . 
The total cost of the five-year program was $297 million . 
For the Smith-Hughes , George-Barden , and National Defense Act of 1958 , the cumulative total of Federal expenditures in 42 years was only about $740 million . 
No comparable measures are available of enrollments and expenditures for private vocational education training . 
There are a great number and variety of private commercial schools , trade schools and technical schools . 
In addition , many large corporations operate their own formal training programs . 
A recent study indicated that 85 per cent of the nation's largest corporations conducted educational programs involving some class meetings and examinations . 
Most skilled industrial workers , nevertheless , still acquire their skills outside of formal training institutions . 
The National Manpower Council of Columbia University has estimated that three out of five skilled workers and one out of five technicians have not been formally trained . 
There is little doubt that the students benefit from vocational education . 
Employers prefer to hire youth with such training rather than those without , and most graduates of vocational training go to work in jobs related to their training . 
Vocational educators do not claim that school training alone makes skilled workers , but it provides the essential groundwork for developing skills . 
In most states , trade and industrial training is provided in a minority of the high schools , usually located in the larger cities . 
In Arkansas fewer than 6 per cent of the high schools offer trade and industrial courses . 
In Illinois about 13 per cent of the schools have programs , and in Pennsylvania 11 per cent . 
An important recent trend is the development of area vocational schools . 
For a number of years Kentucky , Louisiana and several other states have been building state-sponsored vocational education schools that serve nearby school districts in several counties . 
These schools are intended to provide the facilities and specialized curriculum that would not be possible for very small school districts . 
Transportation may be provided from nearby school districts . 
Courses are provided mainly for post high school day programs ; ; but sometimes arrangements also are made for high school students to attend , and evening extension courses also may be conducted . 
The Title 8 , program of the National Defense Education Act of 1958 was a great spur to this trend toward area schools . 
By 1960 there were such schools in all but 4 states . 
They were operating in 10 of the 17 major areas of chronic labor surplus and in 10 of the minor areas . 
An extension of this program into the other distressed areas should be undertaken . 
Relation to new industry Some of this trend toward area vocational schools has been related to the problems of persistent labor surplus areas and their desire to attract new industry . 
The major training need of a new industrial plant is a short period of pre-employment training for a large number of semi-skilled machine operators . 
A few key skilled workers experienced in the company's type of work usually must be brought in with the plant manager , or hired away from a similar plant elsewhere . 
A prospective industry also may be interested in the long-run advantages of training programs in the area to supply future skilled workers and provide supplementary extension courses for its employees . 
The existence of a public school vocational training program in trade and industry provides a base from which such needs can be filled . 
Additional courses can readily be added and special cooperative programs worked out with any new industry if the basic facilities , staff and program are in being . 
Thus , besides the training provided to youth in school , the existence of the school program can have supplementary benefits to industry which make it an asset to industrial development efforts . 
Few states make effective use of their existing vocational education programs or funds for the purpose of attracting new industry . 
The opportunity exists for states to reserve some of their vocational education funds to apply on an ad hoc flexible basis to subsidize any local preemployment training programs that may be quickly set up in a community to aid a new industrial plant . 
Local focus of programs The major weakness of vocational training programs in labor surplus areas is their focus on serving solely local job demands . 
This weakness is not unique to labor surplus areas , for it is inherent in the system of local school districts in this country . 
Planning of vocational education programs and courses is oriented to local employer needs for trained workers . 
All the manuals for setting up vocational courses stress the importance of first making a local survey of skill needs , of estimating the growth of local jobs , and of consulting with local employers on the types of courses and their content . 
Furthermore , there is a cautious conservatism on the part of those making local skill surveys . 
Local jobs can be seen and counted , while opportunities elsewhere are regarded as more hypothetical . 
While the U. S. Department of Labor has a program of projecting industry and occupational employment trends and publishing current outlook statements , there is little tangible evidence that these projections have been used extensively in local curriculum planning . 
The U. S. Office of Education continues to stress local surveys rather than national surveys . 
This procedure is extremely shortsighted in chronic labor surplus areas with a long history of declining employment . 
Elaborate studies have been made in labor surplus areas in order to identify sufficient numbers of local job vacancies and future replacement needs for certain skills to justify training programs for those skills . 
No effort is made in the same studies to present information on regional or national demand trends in these skills or to consider whether regional or national demands for other skills might provide much better opportunities for the youth to be trained . 
Moreover , the current information on what types of training are needed and possible is too limited and fragmentary . 
There simply is not enough material available on the types of job skills that are in demand and the types of training programs that are required or most suitable . 
Much of the available information comes not from the Federal government but from an exchange of experiences among states . 
Proposals State and local agencies in the vocational education field must be encouraged to adopt a wider outlook on future job opportunities . 
There is a need for an expanded Federal effort to provide research and information to help guide state education departments and local school boards in existing programs . 
A related question is whether unemployed workers can be motivated to take the training provided . 
There is little evidence that existing public or private training programs have any great difficulty getting students to enroll in their programs , even though they must pay tuition , receive no subsistence payments , and are not guaranteed a job . 
However , there always is some limit to the numbers who will spend the time and effort to acquire training . 
Again , one major difficulty is the local focus . 
A training program in a depressed area may have few enrollees unless there is some apparent prospect for better employment opportunities afterwards , and the prospect may be poor if the training is aimed solely at jobs in the local community . 
If there is adequate information on job opportunities for skilled jobs elsewhere , many more workers can be expected to respond . 
Another problem is who will pay for the training . 
Local school districts are hard pressed financially and unenthusiastic about vocational training . 
Programs usually are expanded only when outside funds are available or local business leaders demand it . 
Even industrial development leaders find it hard to win local support for training unless a new industry is in sight and requests it . 
State governments have been taking the lead in establishing area vocational schools , but their focus is still on area job opportunities . 
Only the Federal government is likely to be able to take a long-run and nation-wide view and to pay for training to meet national skilled manpower needs . 
If only state funds were used to pay for the vocational education , it could be argued that the state should not have to bear the cost of vocational training which would benefit employers in other states . 
However , if Federal funds are used , it would be entirely appropriate to train workers for jobs which could be obtained elsewhere as well as for jobs in the area of chronic unemployment . 
Such training would increase the tendency of workers to leave the area and find jobs in other localities . 
A further possibility is suggested by the example of the G. I. bills and also by some recent trends in attitudes toward improving college education : that is to provide financial assistance to individuals for vocational training when local facilities are inadequate . 
This probably would require some support for subsistence as well as for tuition , but the total would be no greater than for the proposals of unemployment compensation or a Youth Conservation Corps . 
A maximum of $600 per year per student would enable many to take training away from home . 
A program of financial assistance would permit placing emphasis on the national interest in training highly skilled labor . 
Instead of being limited to the poor training facilities in remote areas , the student would be able to move to large institutions of concentrated specialized training . 
Such specialized training institutions could be located near the most rapidly growing industries , where the equipment and job experience exist and where the future employment opportunities are located . 
This would heighten possibilities for part-time cooperative , on-the-job and extension training . 
Personal financial assistance would enable more emphasis to be placed on the interests of the individual . 
His aptitudes and preferences could be given more weight in selecting the proper training . 
But briefly , the topping configuration must be examined for its inferences . 
Then the fact that the lower channel line was pierced had further forecasting significance . 
And then the application of the count rules to the width ( horizontally ) of the configuration gives us an intial estimate of the probable depth of the decline . 
The very idea of there being `` count rules '' implies that there is some sort of proportion to be expected between the amount of congestive activity and the extent of the breakaway ( run up or run down ) movement . 
This expectation is what really `` sold '' point and figure . 
But there is no positive and consistently demonstrable relationship in the strictest sense . 
Experience will show that only the vaguest generalities apply , and in fine , these merely dwell upon a relationship between the durations and intensities of events . 
After all , too much does not happen too suddenly , nor does very little take long . 
The advantages and disadvantages of these two types of charting , bar charting and point and figure charting , remain the subject of fairly good-natured litigation among their respective professional advocates , with both methods enjoying in common , one irrevocable merit . 
They are both trend-following methods . 
Even if we strip their respective claims to the barest minimum , the `` odds '' still favor them both , for the trend in effect is always more likely to continue than to reverse . 
Of course , many more things are charted besides prices . 
The foregoing have been methods of charting prices , but now let us look at some of the other indices that are customarily charted , and which are looked to for their forecasting abilities . 
The quest for methods The search for forecasting formulae is ceaseless . 
Correlations have been worked up between the loading of freight cars and the course of stock price . 
The theory behind this is , of course , fundamentalist in character . 
As the number of reported freight car loadings increased , this was taken to indicate increased industrial activity , and consequently increased stock earnings , implying fatter dividends , and implying therefore increased stock market prices . 
We now know that things rarely ever work out in such cut-and-dried fashion , and that car loadings , while perhaps interesting enough , are nevertheless not the magic formula that will always turn before stock prices turn . 
But the quest for such an index goes on ceaselessly , with all manner of investors and speculators participating , ranging from the sedate institutional type virtually to the proverbial shoe-string operator , all seeking doggedly , studiously , daily -- and often nightly -- for the enchanting index that will foretell the eternal secret : Which way will the market move -- up or down ? 
It recalls to mind the quest of olden times for the fountain of youth , a quest heavily invested in , during the days of wooden ships . 
Just as heavily invested are the endeavors of multitudes of modern men who carry on the quest for the enchanting index . 
The quest offers careers . 
Much of this goes on in offices high up in Wall Street's lofty wind-swept towers . 
There sit men who make moving averages of weekly volume , monthly averages of price-earnings ratios , ratios of the number of advances to the number of declines , ratios of an individual stock's performance to overall market performance , ratios of rising price volume to falling price volume , odd-lot indices , and what not . 
They are concerned with all things traded in , securities , bonds , cocao , coffee , soybeans , cotton , tin , oats , etc. . 
And along Chicago's West Jackson Boulevard , La Salle Street , and around the Merchandise Mart Plaza there sit men who chart crop reports , who divide the number of reported lady-bugs by the number of reported green-bugs , and the number of hogs by the amount of corn . 
They plot the open interest curves , rainfall curves , and they even divide Democratic congressmen by Republican congressmen . 
All these things and countless more enter into their calculations , and yet , the enchanting index remains non-forthcoming . 
Not , at any rate , in the fuller sense of the word . 
The markets are far too subtle , and the last word in these endeavors will doubtless never be written , for the enchanting index is about as nebulous as the fountain of youth . 
But whereas civilized men no longer pursue the fountain , they never abandoned their pursuit of the enchanting index . 
We mentioned odd-lot indices a few paragraphs ago . 
In the stock market , the normal trading package is a hundred shares , just as 5,000 bushels is the standard grain contract package . 
A stock transaction for less than a hundred shares is executed via a special odd-lot broker on the floor of the exchange . 
This results in a separate record being made , distinguishing these trades from the overall volume of trading . 
According to the theory underlying odd-lot indices , the trader who trades odd lots is most likely a small trader , one who can't afford to trade round lots . 
Or , to use the cynical phraseology of one odd-lot index enthusiast , they represent a sampling of the least sophisticated echelon of traders . 
Falling most easily prey to an adverse market movement , for this rank of traders can least afford to lose , virtually anything the odd-lot traders do , marketwise , is taken to exemplify the `` wrong '' thing to do . 
Figures reporting the volume of odd-lot purchases and odd-lot sales are released by the stock exchange and carried in the newspapers . 
Odd-lot index observers then make graphs of the data according to their particular statistical recipe . 
They might , for example , plot it exactly as is , or they might make ten day moving averages of it , or longer moving averages , or they might simply plot the ratio of odd-lot purchases to odd-lot sales . 
The particular recipe is a matter of individual taste . 
The data is now interpreted in conjunction with a price chart , usually of a popular stock average . 
Towards the end of an intermediate or major rise , while the top is forming on the price chart , it is frequently observed that the odd-lot buying increases sharply . 
This warns the chartist that the formation in progress is quite likely to be a top . 
Similarly , at the opposite end of the market cycle , towards the end of an intermediate or major decline , usually while the bottom is being formed on the price chart , it is characteristic that an increase is noticed in odd-lot selling again alerting the chartist that a bottom is becoming a greater likelihood . 
Thus , in the aggregate , the odd-lot trader is one who buys at the tops and sells at the bottoms , notwithstanding occasional individual exceptions . 
While it had long been known in general , that `` the public is always wrong '' , the use of odd-lot indices now puts the adage on a statistical basis . 
One might well wonder why the `` public is always wrong '' and the question raised is about as awkward as the one concerned with the chicken and the egg . 
Which came first ? 
Is it really that the `` public '' buys at the tops , and not that the market tops out when the `` public '' buys ? 
And the converse at bottoms . 
Does the `` public '' usually sell at bottoms , or does the market usually bottom out when the `` public '' sells ? 
We have been using the word `` public '' in quotation marks , that is , in its vernacular connotation with reference to the odd-lot index theory . 
Obviously someone has to sell in order for someone to buy , and vice versa . 
And while all concerned are members of the literal public , somewhat less than all concerned , although still a majority , form the quotation marked `` public '' . 
And the public minus the `` public '' leaves the so-called `` sophisticated '' element -- the element on the other end of the `` public's '' transactions . 
This element is often called `` strong hands '' . 
Strong hands differ from `` weak hands '' in that their operations are the primary movers . 
They initiate campaigns , so to speak , even if this initiation is diffused among them , and their concerted action only psychologically organized . 
Strong hands act ; ; weak hands react . 
Strong hands move first ; ; weak hands ask , What is going on ? 
When strong hands buy , they are able to buy more , and they do it even in the face of bearish news reports . 
They are able to sit more patiently with what they have bought . 
Needless to say , strong hands are not eager to be joined by weak hands , for this increases the risk that they will have to absorb what these weak hands unload on the way up , at higher prices , during the run-up phase of the campaign . 
Certain badly disillusioned market critics are often apt to feel that there is something somehow unfair , dirty , or even thoroughly criminal about this interplay of competitive forces . 
But after all , can anyone imagine a market wherein the reverse of these things were true ? 
Try to imagine a market in which only a minority of traders would lose , and the majority would make consistent profits . 
How much and how many profits could a majority take out of the losses of a few ? 
Moreover , the taunt concerning the `` sophisticated '' echelon and its alleged erudition is put to test during every campaign , and accrues only upon results ; ; not before . 
It quite often happens that campaigns go askew , resulting in a most unflattering deterioration of strong hands into played-out hands , just as a member of a former campaign's `` public '' may emerge flatteringly `` right '' the next time . 
Membership in the echelons fluctuates too . 
The study of odd-lot indices is somehow akin to the spectacle of a man trying to outfox his own shadow , what with all observers trying to get on the side of the `` few '' at the same time . 
The usefulness of this study and of configuration analysis as well , declines in direct proportion to the dissemination of its use . 
It has to , by virtue of the very dictionary definition of the word `` few '' . 
Diametric opposition must persist as to the future course of prices , if there is to persist a market at all . 
And the few must win what the many lose , for the opposite arrangement would not support markets as we know them at all , and is , in fact , unimaginable . 
There need be no squeamishness about admitting this . 
Anyone still doubting that this is the only way markets can be is invited to try to imagine a market wherein the majority consistently wins what the minority loses . 
Mr. John Magee , whose work has been discussed in this chapter , was quoted in a New Yorker Magazine profile as saying : `` Of course , you have to remember it's a good thing for us chartists that there aren't more of us . 
If you got too many people investing by this method , their operations would begin to affect stock prices , and thus throw the charts off . 
The method would become self-defeating '' . 
Mr. Alexander H. Wheelan's Study Helps In Point And Figure Technique tells the readers : `` We assure you that the total number of people using this method of market analysis is a very small portion of the sum total of those operating in the securities and commodities markets '' . 
What with traders trading for so many different objectives , and what with there being so many unique and individualized market theories and trading techniques in use , and more coming into use all the time , it is hard to imagine how any particular theory or technique could acquire enough `` fans '' to invalidate itself . 
Nevertheless , all theories and techniques lead but to one of two possible modes of expression , if they lead to a market committment at all . 
In the final analysis , then , the user becomes either a bull or a bear in a given instance , notwithstanding any amount of forethought and calculation , however elaborate . 
Thus while his theory or technique may not be oversubscribed , it is commonplace for bullish and bearish positions to become temporarily over-subscribed . 
Though the methods of deciding may be profound and diverse , the possible conclusions remain but two . 
Chapter 6 , more methods the hoaxes The purpose set forth at the beginning of this book was first to introduce the reader to a general background knowledge of the various types and capabilities of the forecasting methods already in use , so that he might then be in a position to evaluate for himself the validity of the rather astonishing empirical correlation that is to follow , and to appraise the forecast that its interpretation suggests for the future of farm prices over the years immediately ahead . 
In assessing the outlook for interest rates in 1961 , the question , as always , is the prospect for general business activity . 
By and large , what happens to business as a whole will govern the relationship between demand and supply conditions in the capital markets and will thus determine interest rates . 
Moreover , the trend of general business activity in 1961 will exert a decisive influence on fiscal , monetary , and other Federal policies which affect interest rates . 
Nineteen-sixty has been a baffling year for analysts of general business activity . 
During much of the year the general level of business activity has moved along on a record-high plateau , but there have been persistent signs of slack in the economy . 
The tendency for general business activity to soften somewhat is becoming more evident . 
Although the pause in the advance of general business activity this year has thus far been quite modest , it is hard to escape the conclusion that the softening process will continue into the first quarter of 1961 and possibly somewhat longer . 
It is difficult to see any powerful sources of strength on the horizon at this time which would give the economy a new upward thrust . 
The rate of plant and equipment spending by business and industry now seems to be topping out and facing some decline . 
In earlier business cycles , when this occurred the country usually experienced a sharp upturn in residential construction as mortgage financing became easier to obtain . 
At this time , however , there are signs that increased availability of mortgage credit will not act with the usual speed to stimulate a sharp rise in residential construction . 
These signs are the inventories of unsold houses in some areas of the country and the moderate rise in vacancy rates for apartments ( 7.6% in September ) . 
On the other hand , in a more favorable vein , general business activity should receive some stimulus from rising Federal spending , and the reduction in business inventories has probably run a good part of its course . 
The 2% increase in retail sales in October to a 4-month high is encouraging in this connection as well as the most recent consumer survey by the National Industrial Conference Board , which shows a decided pickup in consumer spending plans . 
The pattern of general business activity which probably lies ahead of us is a further moderate softening through the spring of 1961 before a new rise in economic activity gets under way . 
The recovery will probably be sparked by a rising rate of housing starts next spring in response to more readily available mortgage credit , as well as by an expansion of Government spending , well sustained consumer spending , and some rebuilding of business inventories . 
Slight downward pressure What does the general business outlook suggest about the trend of long-term rates in 1961 ? 
It suggests that during the next several months , through the spring of 1961 , the demand for long-term capital funds may be moderately lower and that interest rates may tend to move a little lower , especially the rates on Federal , state , and local bonds , as well as those on publicly offered corporate bonds . 
However , as witnessed by the large corporate bond calendar at present , as well as the record amount of municipal bond issues approved by voters , the over-all demands for capital funds seem likely to remain high , so that any downward pressure on rates from reduced demand should not be great . 
It seems likely , moreover , that with an increase in the rate of saving in mortgage lending institutions , interest rates on residential mortgages may move somewhat lower through the spring of next year , although the increased ease in residential mortgage lending may occur primarily in other terms than interest rate , e.g. , easier downpayment and amortization terms . 
If the trend of general business activity follows the pattern suggested here , we are likely to see additional steps by the Federal Reserve authorities to ease the availability of credit . 
Certainly a further reduction in the discount rate would be a strong possibility , as well as an easier reserve position for the banking system . 
However , the monetary authorities will continue to be required to pay attention to the consequences of their actions with respect to our international balance of payments position and the outflow of gold , as well as with regard to avoiding the creation of excessive liquidity in the economy , which would delay the effectiveness of monetary policy measures in the next expansion phase of the business cycle . 
Open market policy One of the most intriguing questions is whether the recent departures of the Federal Reserve authorities from confining their open market operations to Treasury bills will spread into longer-term Government securities in the next few months . 
To the extent that the new Administration has its wishes , the Federal Reserve would conduct its open market operations throughout the entire maturity range of Government securities and aggressively seek to force down long-term interest rates . 
The principle of `` bills only '' , or `` bills preferably '' , seems so strongly accepted by the Federal Reserve that it is difficult to envision conditions which would persuade the authorities to depart radically from it by extending their open market purchases regularly into long-term Government securities . 
However , to the extent that the monetary authorities , in their effort to ease credit in the next several months , conduct their open market operations in longer-term Government bonds , they will certainly act to accentuate any tendency for long-term interest rates to ease as a result of market forces . 
By the end of the spring of 1961 , assuming that a general business recovery gets under way , interest rates should begin to edge upward again , depending upon the vigor of the recovery and the determination with which the monetary authorities move to restrain credit availability . 
My guess would be that interest rates will decline moderately into the spring of 1961 and during the second half of the year will turn up gradually to recover the ground lost during the downturn . 
It is pertinent to ask the question : Has the long upswing of interest rates during the past 15 years just about run its course , and are we now entering a period in which both capital market forces and Federal policies will produce a prolonged decline of interest rates ? 
My answer is in the negative because I believe that total capital demands during the Sixties will continue to press against available supplies , and interest rates will generally tend to be firm at high levels . 
Five basic forces This view is based upon several basic economic forces which I believe will be operating in the Sixties , as follows : ( 1 ) Recent events in the General Assembly of the United Nations confirm that the cold war will remain with us , and probably intensify , for the foreseeable future . 
This makes it certain that Federal expenditures for military preparedness and foreign economic aid are likely to rise further in the next several years . 
We are just beginning the task of trying to win or maintain the friendship of the new African nations against the ruthless competition of the Communist bloc . 
Our efforts to overcome the lead of the Russians in space are bound to mean accelerated Federal spending . 
Moreover , it is likely that Federal policies aimed at stimulating a faster rate of economic growth of the country , to keep ahead of the Communist countries and to demonstrate that our free economic system is better than theirs , will lead to rising Federal spending in certain areas such as education , housing , medical aid , and the like . 
There are serious dangers involved in this trend toward rising Federal expenditures , of which I take a dim view , but it seems very likely to occur . 
( 2 ) During the Sixties we have the prospect of a significant stepping up in the rate of household formations , which should contribute to a rising volume of consumer expenditures and home building . 
According to the latest projections of the Bureau of the Census , the annual rate of household formations will increase for the next 20 years . 
Under the most favorable assumptions for increase , the Bureau of the Census projects that the annual rate of household formations will rise from about 883,000 in the last two years of the Fifties to an annual rate of about 1,018,000 in the first five years of the Sixties , and to a slightly higher annual rate of 1,083,000 in the second half of the decade . 
During the Seventies the projections show a more pronounced rise to an annual rate of 1,338,000 in the second half of that decade . 
Accordingly , the expanding markets for consumer goods and housing occasioned by the higher rate of household formation should enhance the general economic prospects of the Sixties . 
However , the impact of a rising rate of household formation this decade should not be exaggerated . 
The average annual rate of 1,083,000 in the second half of the Sixties is still considerably below the annual rate of 1,525,000 in the three-year period from April 1947 to March 1950 . 
( 3 ) With the expansion of family formation in the Sixties , a continued substantial rise in expenditures by state and local government units seems to be indicated . 
This is an area in which there is still a large backlog of demand . 
State and local expenditures ( in real terms ) increased persistently from $26.5-billion in 1949 to $44.3-billion in 1959 , and it would not be surprising if they showed a comparable increase in this decade , which would carry them to the neighborhood of $75-billion by 1970 . 
Here would be a powerful force for raising business activity . 
( 4 ) It seems likely that with the three preceding forces at play , the rate of business and industrial plant and equipment expenditures should continue to move upward from the levels of the Fifties . 
Spurred by keen competition in our industrial system , and still further increases in the funds devoted to industrial research , plant and equipment expenditures by business and industry should rise during the decade . 
( 5 ) In a more pessimistic vein about the economic outlook , I suspect that the reservoir of demand for consumer goods and housing which was dammed-up during the Thirties and World War 2 , is finally in the process of running dry . 
There is some clear-cut evidence of this . 
For example , the huge postwar demand on the part of veterans for housing under the VA home loan guaranty program seems to have largely exhausted itself . 
Indeed , the failure of home-building as a whole to respond this year to somewhat greater availability of mortgage financing , and the increasing reports of pockets of unsold homes and rising vacancy rates in apartment buildings , may also signal in part that the lush days of big backlog demand for housing are reaching an end . 
In a way , we may be witnessing the same thing in the sales of automobiles today as the public no longer is willing to purchase any car coming on the market but is more insistent on compact cars free of the frills which were accepted in the Fifties . 
The huge backlog of demand which was evident in the first decade and a half after the War was fed by liquid assets accumulated by the public during the War , and even more so by the easier and easier credit in the consumer loan and home loan fields . 
The consuming public has used up a good part of these liquid assets , or they have been drained by the rising price level , and we have apparently gotten to the end of the line in making consumer or home mortgage terms easier . 
This is not to say that the level of consumer expenditures will not continue to rise in the Sixties . 
I am confident that it will , but consumer spending in the Sixties will not be fortified by the great backlog of wants and desires which characterized most of the Fifties . 
Markets should become more competitive as consumers become more selective . 
Sixties' capital requirements Accordingly , during the Sixties our national economy is likely to grow at as fast a rate as in the Fifties and , in the process , to require enormous amounts of capital funds . 
Wage-price policies of industry are the result of a complex of forces -- no single explanation has been found which applies to all cases . 
The purpose of this paper is to analyze one possible force which has not been treated in the literature , but which we believe makes a significant contribution to explaining the wage-price behavior of a few very important industries . 
While there may be several such industries to which the model of this paper is applicable , the authors make particular claim of relevance to the explanation of the course of wages and prices in the steel industry of the United States since World War 2 . 
Indeed , the apparent stiffening of the industry's attitude in the recent steel strike has a direct explanation in terms of the model here presented . 
The model of this paper considers an industry which is not characterized by vigorous price competition , but which is so basic that its wage-price policies are held in check by continuous critical public scrutiny . 
Where the industry's product price has been kept below the `` profit-maximizing '' and `` entry-limiting '' prices due to fears of public reaction , the profit seeking producers have an interest in offering little real resistance to wage demands . 
The contribution of this paper is a demonstration of this proposition , and an exploration of some of its implications . 
In order to focus clearly upon the operation of this one force , which we may call the effect of `` public-limit pricing '' on `` key '' wage bargains , we deliberately simplify the model by abstracting from other forces , such as union power , which may be relevant in an actual situation . 
For expository purposes , this is best treated as a model which spells out the conditions under which an important industry affected with the public interest would find it profitable to raise wages even in the absence of union pressures for higher wages . 
Part 1 , below describes this abstract model by spelling out its assumptions . 
Part 2 , discusses the operation of the model and derives some significant conclusions . 
Part 3 , discusses the empirical relevance and policy implications of the conclusions . 
Part 4 , is a brief summary . 
The Mathematical Appendix presents the rigorous argument , but is best read after Part 1 , in order that the assumptions underlying the equations may be explicit . 
1 , the assumptions of the model A . 
The industry The industry with which this model is concerned is a basic industry , producing a substantial share of gross national product . 
Price competition is lacking . 
For the purposes of setting the product price , the industry behaves as a single entity . 
In wage negotiations , the industry bargains as a unit with a single union . 
B . 
The demand for the industry's product We are concerned with aggregate demand for the industry's product . 
The manner in which this is shared among firms is taken as given . 
In any given time period , the aggregate demand for the industry's product is determined by two things : the price charged by the industry , and the level of Aj . 
For the purposes of this discussion , the problem of relative prices is encompassed in these two variables , since GNP includes other prices . 
( We abstract here from technological progress and assume that prices of all other products change proportionately . 
) The form of the industry demand function is one which makes quantity demanded vary inversely with the product price , and vary directly with the level of Aj . 
C . 
Industry product price policy The industry of this model is so important that its wage and price policies are affected with a public interest . 
Because of its importance , and because the lack of price competition is well recognized , the industry is under considerable public pressure not to raise its price any more than could be justified by cost increases . 
The threat of effective anti-trust action , provoked by `` gouging the public '' through price increases not justified by cost increases , and fears of endangering relations with customers , Congress , the general public and the press , all operate to keep price increases in some relation to cost increases . 
For the industry of this model , the effect of such public pressures in the past has been to hold the price well below the short-run profit-maximizing price ( given the wage rate and the level of GNP ) , and even below the entry-limited price ( but not below average cost ) . 
For such an industry , it is only `` safe '' to raise its price if such an increase is manifestly `` justified '' by rising costs ( due to rising wages , etc. ) . 
Thus , if public pressure sets the effective limit to the price that the industry may charge , this pressure is itself a function of the wage rate . 
In this model , we abstract from all non-wage sources of cost changes , so that the `` public-limit price '' only rises as the wage rate rises . 
In such circumstances , it may well be to the advantage of the industry to allow an increase in the basic wage rate . 
Since marginal costs rise when the wage rate rises , the profit-maximizing price also rises when the public-limit price is elevated , and is likely to remain well above the latter . 
The entry-limiting price will also be raised for potential domestic competition , but unless general inflation permits profit margins to increase proportionately throughout the economy , we might expect the public-limit price to approach the entry-limit price . 
The foreign-entry-limit price would be approached more rapidly , since domestic wage-rates do not enter foreign costs directly . 
Where this approach becomes critical , the industry can be expected to put much emphasis on this as evidence of its sincerity in `` resisting '' the wage pressures of a powerful union , requesting tariff relief after it has `` reluctantly '' acceded to the union pressure . 
Whether or not it is in the industry's interest to allow the basic wage rate to rise obviously depends upon the extent to which the public-limit price rises in response to a basic wage increase , and the relation of this response to the increase in costs accompanying the wage increase . 
The extent to which the public-limit price is raised by a given increase in the basic wage rate is itself a function of three things : the passage of time , the level of GNP , and the size of the wage increase . 
We are abstracting from the fact of strikes here , but it should be obvious that the extent to which the public-limit price is raised by a given increase in the basic wage rate is also a function of the show of resistance put up by the industry . 
The industry may deliberately take a strike , not to put pressure on the union , but in order to `` educate '' the government and the customers of the industry . 
As a strike continues , these parties increase their pressure on the industry to reach an agreement . 
They become increasingly willing to accept the price increase that the industry claims the wage bargain would entail . 
Public indignation and resistance to wage-price increases is obviously much less when the increases are on the order of 3% per annum than when the increases are on the order of 3% per month . 
The simple passage of an additional eleven months' time makes the second 3% boost more acceptable . 
Thus , the public-limit price is raised further by a given wage increase the longer it has been since the previous price increase . 
Notice , however , that the passage of time does not permit the raising of prices per se , without an accompanying wage increase . 
Similarly , higher levels of GNP do not , in themselves , provide grounds for raising prices , but they do relax some of the pressure on the industry so that it can raise prices higher for a given wage increase . 
This is not extended to anticipated levels of GNP , however -- only the current level of GNP affects the public pressure against wage-price increases . 
Finally , since the public requires some restraint on the part of the companies , larger wage increases call for less than proportionately larger price increases ( e.g. , if a wage increase of 5% allows a price increase of 7% , a wage increase of 10% allows a price increase of something less than 14% ) . 
D . 
Industry costs We assume that average total unit cost in the relevant region of operation is constant with respect to quantity produced ( the average cost curve is horizontal , and therefore is identical with the marginal cost curve ) , and is the same for every firm ( and therefore for the industry ) . 
The level of this average cost is determined by factor prices , technology , and so forth . 
As we have noted , however , we are abstracting from changes in all determinants of this level except for changes in the wage rate . 
The level of average cost ( equal to marginal cost ) is thus strictly a function of the wage rate . 
E . 
Union policies and collective bargaining issues The single union which faces the industry does not restrict its membership , and there is an adequate supply of labor available to the firms of the industry at the going wage rate . 
The union does not regard unemployment of its own members as a matter of concern when setting its own wage policy -- its concern with employment makes itself felt in pressure upon the government to maintain full employment . 
The union vigorously demands wage increases from productivity increases , and wage increases to offset cost-of-living increases , but we abstract from these forces here . 
For our present purposes we assume that the sole subject of bargaining is the basic wage rate ( not including productivity improvement factors or cost-of-living adjustments ) , and it is this basic wage rate which determines the level of costs . 
Productivity is something of an amorphous concept and the amount of productivity increase in a given time period is not even well known to the industry , much less to the union or to the public . 
Disagreement on the amount of productivity increase exacerbates the problem of agreeing how an increase in profit margins related to a productivity increase should be shared . 
The existence of conflict and of vigorous union demand for an increase in money wages does not contradict the assumption that the union is willing to settle for cost-of-living and productivity-share increases as distinct from a cost-raising increase in the basic wage rate . 
We assume further that the union recognizes the possibility that price-level increases may offset wage-rate increases , and it does not entirely disregard the effect of price increases arising from its own wage increases upon the `` real '' wage rate . 
For internal political reasons , the union asks for ( and accepts ) increases in the basic wage rate , and would vigorously oppose a reduction in this rate , but the adjustment of the basic wage rate upwards is essentially up to the discretion of the companies of the industry . 
Changes in the basic wage rate are cost-raising , and they constitute an argument for raising prices . 
However , it is not known to either the union or the public precisely how much of a cost increase is caused by a given change in the basic wage rate , although the companies are presumed to have reliable estimates of this magnitude . 
In this model , then , the industry is presumed to realize that they could successfully resist a change in the basic wage rate , but since such a change is the only effective means to raising prices they may , in circumstances to be spelled out in Part 2 , below , find it to their advantage to allow the wage rise . 
Thus , for non-negative changes in the basic wage rate , the industry becomes the active wage-setter , since any increase in the basic wage rate can occur only by reason of industry acquiescence . 
The presumption in the literature would appear to be that the basic wage rate would be unchanged in this case , on the grounds that it is `` clearly '' not in the interest of the industry to raise wages gratuitously . 
From this presumption it is an easy step to the conclusion that any observed increases in the basic wage rate must be due to union behavior different and more aggressive than assumed in our model . 
It is this conclusion that we challenge ; ; we do so by disproving the presumption on which it is based . 
2 , the operation of the model It is convenient to assume that the union-industry contract is of one year's duration . 
In the century from 1815 to 1914 the law of nations became international law . 
Several factors contributed to this change . 
The Congress of Vienna is a convenient starting point because it both epitomized and symbolized what was to follow . 
Here in 1815 the great nations assembled to legislate not merely for Europe , but for the world . 
Thus the Congress marks a formal recognition of the political system that was central to world politics for a century . 
International law had to fit the conditions of Europe , and nothing that could not fit this system , or the interests of the great European nations collectively , could possibly emerge as law in any meaningful sense . 
Essentially this imposed two conditions : First , international law had to recognize and be compatible with an international political system in which a number of states were competitive , suspicious , and opportunistic in their political alignments with one another ; ; second , it had to be compatible with the value system that they shared . 
In both respects , international law was Europeanized . 
It was not always easy to develop theory and doctrine which would square the two conditions . 
On the one hand , the major European nations had to maintain vis-a-vis each other an emphasis upon sovereignty , independence , formal equality -- thus insuring for themselves individually an optimal freedom of action to maintain the `` flexibility of alignment '' that the system required and to avoid anything approaching a repetition of the disastrous Napoleonic experience . 
But there was no pressing need to maintain these same standards with regard to most of the rest of the world . 
Thus , theory and doctrine applicable among the great nations and the smaller European states did not really comfortably fit less developed and less powerful societies elsewhere . 
Political interference in Africa and Asia and even in Latin America ( though limited in Latin America by the special interest of the United States as expressed in the Monroe Doctrine , itself from the outset related to European politics and long dependent upon the `` balance of power '' system in Europe ) was necessary in order to preserve both common economic values and the European `` balance '' itself . 
A nation such as Switzerland could be neutralized by agreement and could be relied upon to protect its neutrality ; ; more doubtful , but possible , ( with an assist from the North ) was the neutralization of the Latin American countries ; ; out of the question was the neutralization of Asia and Africa . 
This Europeanization of the law was made explicit by a number of 19th century scholars . 
More emphasis was put upon the fact that international law was the law of `` civilized nations '' ; ; Kent and Story , the great early American scholars , repeatedly made use of this phrase , or of `` Christian nations '' , which is a substantial equivalent . 
Wheaton stated that the public law was essentially `` limited to the civilized and Christian peoples of Europe or to those of European origin '' . 
Of course it had always been of European origin in fact , but it had maintained a universal outlook under the natural law theory . 
Now , with virtually every writer , not only was the European origin of public law acknowledged as a historical phenomenon , but the rules thus established by the advanced civilizations of Europe were to be imposed on others . 
The European customs on which international law was based were to become , by force and fiat , the customs that others were to accept as law if they were to join this community as sovereign states . 
Hall , for example , was quite explicit on this point when he said states outside European civilization must formally enter into the circle of law-governed countries . 
They must do something with the acquiescence of the latter , or some of them , which amounts to an acceptance of the law in its entirety beyond all possibility of misconstruction '' . 
During the nineteenth century these views were protested by virtually all the Latin American writers , though ineffectively , just as the new nations of Africa and Asia protest them , with more effect , today . 
A number of other nineteenth-century developments contributed to the transmutation of the law of nations into international law ; ; that is , from aspects of a universal system of Justice into particular rules governing the relations of sovereign states . 
The difference is important , for although the older law of nations did cover relationships among sovereigns , this was by no means its exclusive domain . 
The law of nature governed sovereigns in their relationship to their own citizens , to foreigners , and to each other in a conceptually unified system . 
The theory of international law , which in the nineteenth century became common to virtually all writers in Europe and America , broke this unity and this universality . 
It lost sight of the individual almost entirely and confined itself to rules limiting the exercise of state power for reasons essentially unconnected with justice or morality save as these values might affect international relations . 
No longer did the sovereign look to the law of nations to determine what he ought to do ; ; his search was merely for rules that might limit his freedom of action . 
To appreciate this development , we must relate it to other aspects of nineteenth-century philosophy . 
First , and most obvious , was the growing nationalism and the tendency to regard the state , and the individual's identification with the state , as transcending other ties of social solidarity . 
National identification was not new , but it was accelerating in intensity and scope throughout Europe as new unifications occurred . 
It reached its ultimate philosophical statement in notions of `` state will '' put forward by the Germans , especially by Hegel , although political philosophers will recognize its origins in the rejected doctrines of Hobbes . 
National identification was reflected jurisprudentially in law theories which incorporated this Hegelian abstraction and saw law , domestic and international , simply as its formal reflection . 
In the international community this reduced law to Jellinek's auto-limitation . 
A state , the highest form of human organization in fact and theory , could be subjected to Law only by a manifestation of self-will , or consent . 
According to the new theories , the nineteenth century corporate sovereign was `` sovereign '' in a quite new and different sense from his historical predecessors . 
He no longer sought to find the law ; ; he made it ; ; he could be subjected to law only because he agreed to be . 
There was no law , domestic or international , except that willed by , acknowledged by , or consented to by states . 
Hidden behind Hegelian abstractions were more practical reasons for a changing jurisprudence . 
Related to , but distinguishable from , nationalism was the growth of democracy in one form or another . 
Increased participation in politics and the demands of various groups for status and recognition had dramatic effects upon law institutions . 
The efforts of various interest groups to control or influence governmental decisions , particularly when taken in conjunction with the impact of industralization , led to a concentration of attention on the legislative power and the means whereby policy could be formulated and enforced as law through bureaucratic institutions . 
Law became a conscious process , something more than simply doing justice and looking to local customs and a common morality for applicable norms . 
Particularly was this true when the norms previously applied were no longer satisfactory to many , when customs were rapidly changing as the forces of the new productivity were harnessed . 
The old way of doing things , which depended on a relatively stable community with stable ideas dealing with familiar situations , was no longer adequate to the task . 
First was the period of codification of existing law : the Code Napoleon in France and the peculiar codification that , in fact , resulted from Austin's restatement and ordering of the Common Law in England . 
Codification was followed in all countries by a growing amount of legislation , some changing and adjusting the older law , much dealing with entirely new situations . 
The legislative mills have been grinding ever since , and when its cumbersome processes were no longer adequate to the task , a limited legislative authority was delegated in one form or another , to the executive . 
Whereas the eighteenth century had been a time in which man sought justice , the nineteenth and twentieth have been centuries in which men are satisfied with law . 
Indeed , with developed positivism , the separation of law from justice , or from morality generally , became quite specific . 
In municipal systems we tend to view what is called positivism as fundamentally a movement to democratize policy by increasing the power of parliament -- the elected representatives -- at the expense of the more conservative judiciary . 
When the power of the latter was made both limited and explicit -- when norms were clarified and made more precise and the creation of new norms was placed exclusively in parliamentary hands -- two purposes were served : Government was made subservient to an institutionalized popular will , and law became a rational system for implementing that will , for serving conscious goals , for embodying the `` public policy '' . 
It is true that , initially , the task was to remove restrictions that , it was thought , inhibited the free flow of money , goods , and labor ; ; but even laissez-faire was a conscious policy . 
Law was seen as an emanation of the `` sovereign will '' . 
However , the sovereign was not Hobbes' absolute monarch but rather the parliamentary sovereign of Austin . 
It was , too , an optimistic philosophy , and , though it separated law from morality , it was by no means an immoral or amoral one . 
Man , through democratic institutions of government and economic freedom , was master of his destiny . 
The theory did not require , though it unfortunately might acquire , a Hegelian mystique . 
It was merely a rationalization and ordering of new institutions of popular government . 
It was not opposed to either justice or morality ; ; it merely wished to minimize subjective views of officials who wielded public authority . 
Particularly was this true as laissez-faire capitalism became the dominant credo of Western society . 
To free the factors of production was a major objective of the rising bourgeoisie , and this objective required that governmental authority -- administrative officials and judges -- be limited as precisely and explicitly as possible ; ; that old customs which inhibited trade be abrogated ; ; that business be free from governmental supervision and notions of morality which might clog the automatic adjustments of the free market ; ; that obligations of status that were inconsistent with the new politics and the new economics be done away with . 
Contract -- conceived as the free bargain of formal equals -- replaced the implied obligations of a more static and status-conscious society . 
Indeed , contract was the dominant legal theme of the century , the touchstone of the free society . 
Government itself was based upon contract ; ; business organization -- the corporation -- was analyzed in contractual terms ; ; trade was based on freedom of contract , and money was lent and borrowed on contractual terms ; ; even marriage and the family was seen as a contractual arrangement . 
It is not surprising that the international obligations of states were also viewed in terms of contract . 
In fact , some -- Anzilotti is the principle example -- went so far as to say that all international law could be traced to the single legal norm , Pacta sunt Servanda . 
The displacement ( at least to a considerable extent ) of the ethical jurisprudence of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries by positivism reshaped both international law theory and doctrine . 
In the first place the new doctrine brought a formal separation of international from municipal law , rejecting the earlier view that both were parts of a universal legal system . 
One result was to nationalize much that had been regarded as the law of nations . 
Admiralty law , the law merchant , and the host of problems which arise in private litigation because of some contact with a foreign country were all severed from the older Law of Nations and made dependent on the several national laws . 
Private international law ( which Americans call the `` conflict of laws '' ) was thus segregated from international law proper , or , as it is often called , public international law . 
States were free to enact , within broad , though ( perhaps ) determinate limits , their own rules as to the application of foreign law by their courts , to vary the law merchant , and to enact legislation with regard to many claims arising on the high seas . 
The change was not quite so dramatic as it sounds because in fact common norms continued to be invoked by municipal courts and were only gradually changed by legislation , and then largely in marginal situations . 
Mr. Justice Black was one of the minority that rested on the Article 1 , power . 
In this view , supported by only three members of the Court , a power denied by the specific provisions of Article 3 , was granted by the generality of Article 1 . 
If this seems arbitrary , its effect was to treat citizens of the District of Columbia equally with citizens of the states -- at the expense of expanding a troublesome jurisdiction . 
Federal question jurisdiction For almost a hundred years we relied upon state courts ( subject to review by the Supreme Court ) for the protection of most rights arising under national law . 
Then in 1875 , apparently in response to the nationalizing influence of the Civil War , Congress first gave the lower federal courts general authority -- concurrently with state tribunals -- to decide cases involving federal-right questions . 
One purpose of the change was to attain sympathetic enforcement of rights insured by the Civil War amendments against state interference . 
Serious difficulty arose with the advent of Substantive Due Process . 
An amendment , presumably designed to deal with the problems of newly freed slaves , became a `` laissez-faire '' limitation upon state economic policy . 
A flood of federal lower court injunctions seriously impeded the processes of local government . 
Congress reacted with a series of measures modifying in various ways what it had granted in 1875 . 
In 1910 it required the convening of a special three-judge court for the issuance of certain injunctions and allowed direct appeals to the Supreme Court . 
Such legislation was clarified and extended from time to time thereafter . 
In 1913 an abortive provision was made for the stay of federal injunction proceedings upon institution of state court test cases . 
The essential ineffectiveness of these measures resulted in 1934 in substantial elimination of federal jurisdiction to enjoin state public utility rate orders . 
Three years later similar restraints were imposed upon injunctions against collection of state taxes . 
This saved for state adjudication , in the first instance , the two major areas where federal injunctions had been most obnoxious , but other areas remained vulnerable . 
Meanwhile , the Supreme Court , like Congress , showed misgivings concerning this aspect of government by injunction . 
Drawing upon the traditional discretion of the chancellor , Mr. Justice Holmes introduced a series of self-imposed judicial restraints that culminated in Mr. Justice Frankfurter's famous doctrine of abstention . 
Whereas the earlier cases turned rather narrowly upon the availability of adequate state remedies , the new emphasis is upon the nature of the state policy at issue . 
The classic case is Railroad Commission v. Pullman . 
The commission had issued an administrative order which was challenged as discriminatory against Negroes . 
Its enforcement was enjoined by a federal trial court . 
On review the Supreme Court , via Mr. Justice Frankfurter , found southern racial problems `` a sensitive area of social policy on which the federal courts ought not to enter unless no alternative to adjudication is open '' . 
An alternative was found in the vagueness of state law as to whether the offending order had in fact been authorized . 
Reluctant , as usual , to interpret state legislation -- such interpretation can only be a `` forecast rather than a determination '' -- Mr. Justice Frankfurter led a unanimous Court to vacate the injunction . 
But it is crucial that here , unlike Burford , the trial court was ordered to retain the case until the state courts had had a reasonable opportunity to settle the state-law question . 
`` The resources of equity are equal to an adjustment that will avoid the waste of a tentative decision as well as the friction of a premature constitutional adjudication '' . 
Temporary abstention , i.e. , postponement , is one thing ; ; refusal to adjudicate is another . 
To the extent that the jurisdictional principle of 1875 stands unmodified by subsequent legislation , federal equitable relief against state action must be available -- or so it seems to Mr. Justice Frankfurter . 
In Alabama Public Service Commission v. Southern Ry. Co. , the commission had refused to permit abandonment of certain `` uneconomic '' train facilities . 
The railroad , claiming deprivation of property without due process of law , sought injunctive relief . 
The Court held that federal jurisdiction should not be exercised lest the domestic policy of the state be obstructed ; ; this in the name of equitable discretion . 
Justices Frankfurter and Jackson concurred in the Court's result , for they found no merit in the railroad's claim . 
But they objected vigorously to the proposition that federal courts may refuse to exercise jurisdiction conferred in a valid act of Congress : `` By one fell swoop the Court now finds that Congress indulged in needless legislation in the acts of 1910 , 1913 , 1925 , 1934 and 1937 . 
By these measures , Congress , so the Court ( in effect ) now decides , gave not only needless but inadequate relief , since it now appears that the federal courts have inherent power to sterilize the Act of 1875 against all proceedings challenging local regulation '' . 
A most revealing recent case is Textile Workers Union v. Lincoln Mills . 
The Taft-Hartley Act gave the federal courts jurisdiction over `` suits for violation of contracts between an employer and a labor organization representing employees in an industry affecting commerce '' . 
On its face this merely provides a federal forum ; ; it does not establish any law ( rights ) for the federal judges to enforce . 
How can judges exercise jurisdiction to enforce national rights when Congress has created none ? 
The Court held that Congress had intended the federal judiciary to `` fashion '' an appropriate law of labor-management contracts . 
In short , congressional power to grant federal-question authority to federal courts is now apparently so broad that Congress need not create , or specify , the right to be enforced . 
The Lincoln Mills decision authorizes a whole new body of federal `` common law '' which , as Mr. Justice Frankfurter pointed out in dissent , leads to one of the following `` incongruities '' : `` ( ( 1 ) conflict in federal and state court interpretations of collective bargaining agreements ; ; ( 2 ) displacement of state law by federal law in state courts in all actions regarding collective bargaining agreements ; ; or ( 3 ) exclusion of state court jurisdiction over these matters '' . 
The Justice's elaborate examination of the legislative history of the provision in question suggests that Congress' purpose was merely to make unions suable . 
With a few exceptions , the lawmakers seemed unaware of the technical problems of federal jurisdiction involved -- to say nothing of the delegation of lawmaking power to judges . 
To avoid these constitutional difficulties , Mr. Justice Frankfurter was prepared to read the Taft-Hartley provision as concerned with diversity , rather than federal question , jurisdiction . 
This would satisfy what presumably was Congress' major purpose -- the suability of unions . 
It would also leave intact the states' traditional authority in the realm of contract law . 
( As we have seen , the Erie and York decisions require federal courts in diversity cases to follow state decisional rules . 
) Here again Mr. Justice Frankfurter could not lightly accept the principle of wholesale judicial legislation . 
If Congress wants to displace the states from areas which they have customarily occupied , let it do so knowingly and explicitly . 
And let it do its own lawmaking and not leave that to federal judges . 
Does Lincoln Mills suggest that if Congress granted jurisdiction over interstate divorce cases , the federal courts would be authorized to fashion a national law for the dissolution of marriages ? 
There is a common problem behind most of these federal question and diversity cases . 
Congress has not clearly defined the bounds between state and federal court competence . 
It has the power to do so but for the most part has left the matter for solution by judges on a case-by-case basis . 
A careful student has suggested that `` In any new revision ( of the Judicial Code ) the legislators would do well to remember that the allocation of power to the federal courts should be limited to those matters in which their expertise in federal law might be used , leaving to the state judiciaries the primary obligation of pronouncing state law '' . 
Obviously , the goal here proposed is the guiding principle in Mr. Justice Frankfurter's opinions -- to the extent that Congress leaves the problem to judicial discretion . 
The same rule of specialization and division of labor guides him in the FELA certiorari cases , in the administrative law area , and indeed in the whole realm of judicial review . 
Mr. Justice Black no doubt concurs in principle but is more apt to make exceptions to achieve a generous and `` just '' result . 
He will not be `` fooled by technicalities '' . 
Federal review of state decisions With few exceptions , Congress has not given federal courts exclusive authority to enforce rights arising under federal law . 
To put it differently , state and federal courts have concurrent jurisdiction with respect to most claims of federal right . 
To insure uniformity in the meaning of national law , however , state interpretations are subject to Supreme Court review . 
It may be noted , parenthetically , that to evade `` desegregation '' an ex-Justice and former southern governor has urged Congress to abolish this reviewing authority . 
The result , of course , would be that federal law inevitably would mean different things in different states . 
It would also probably mean different things within the same state -- depending upon what court ( state or federal ) rendered decision . 
We consider here only a few of many problems involved in this crucial federal-state relationship . 
The first is that enforcement of national law in state litigation raises in reverse the old diversity puzzle of the relation of procedure to substance . 
Subject to certain constitutional restraints in favor of fair trials , each level of government is free to devise its own judicial procedures . 
Litigants who choose to assert federal claims in a state court go into that court subject to its rules of procedure . 
A similar canon applies to those who press state claims in federal tribunals , e.g. , in diversity cases . 
In an FELA controversy the state court followed established state procedure by construing a vague complaint `` most strongly against '' the complainant . 
In other words the burden of pleading clearly rested upon the pleader by state law . 
The result was that the plaintiff's case was dismissed . 
Mr. Justice Black led a reversing majority : `` Strict local rules of pleading cannot be used to impose unnecessary burdens upon rights of recovery authorized by federal law '' . 
Here , as in the Byrd case , another element of state procedure was subsumed to federal judge-made law . 
Justices Frankfurter and Jackson dissented : `` One State may cherish formalities more than another , one State may be more responsive than another to procedural reforms . 
If a litigant chooses to enforce a Federal right in a State court , he cannot be heard to object if he is treated exactly as are plaintiffs who press like claims arising under State law with regard to the form in which the claim must be stated -- the particularity , for instance , with which a cause of action must be described . 
Federal law , though invoked in a State court , delimits the Federal claim -- defines what gives a right to recovery and what goes to prove it . 
But the form in which the claim must be stated need not be different from what the State exacts in the enforcement of like obligations created by it , so long as a requirement does not add to , or diminish , the right as defined by Federal law , nor burden the realization of this right in the actualities of litigation '' . 
Another problem in the area of federal-state relationships is this : what constitutes reversible error in a state decision ? 
Terminiello v. Chicago involved a conviction for disorderly conduct under a local ordinance . 
The conduct in question was a speech . 
The accused did not object to the trial court's charge to the jury that discourse `` may constitute a breach of the peace if it stirs the public to anger , invites dispute , brings about a condition of unrest . 
'' For present purposes it may be assumed that this charge so narrowly limited speech as to violate the federal Constitution . 
Though the accused raised many other objections , he did not object on this crucial point at any stage of the proceedings . 
That is , he did not claim in any of the four courts through which his case progressed that the jury charge had denied him any federal right . 
How else can one explain , for example , allowing the survival of the right to amortize bond discount and premium ( section 381(c)(9) ) , but not the right to amortize bond issue expenses ; ; or allowing a deduction for payment of certain obligations of a transferor assumed in the reorganization ( section 381(c)(16) ) , but not a deduction for theft losses sustained by a transferor prior to a reorganization but discovered after it ; ; or requiring a transferor to carry over its method of depreciation ( section 381(c)(6) ) , but not allowing rapid amortization of emergency facilities transferred in a reorganization ; ; or allowing survival of a dividend carryover to a personal holding company ( section 381(c)(14) ) , but not carryover of excess tax credits for foreign taxes ? 
These items , and most of the others listed above , seem quite comparable to items whose right of survival is provided for in section 381 . 
There does not seem to be any reasonable basis for distinction either in terms of the nature of the tax attribute or in terms of tax-avoidance possibilities . 
With respect to items such as these the provisions of section 381(c) , viewed in historical perspective , suggest a rule requiring survival , whether the items are beneficial or detrimental to the surviving corporation . 
To this extent some stretching of the literal meaning of the Committee Report seems justified , since the literal meaning conflicts with the clear implication , if not the language , of the statute . 
It is not contended that section 381 should prescribe the survival of all of the transferor's tax attributes . 
Such an interpretation could not be justified by a construction of the statute alone ; ; it would certainly violate the intention of Congress as expressed in the Committee Report ; ; and in at least one instance , involving refund claims , it might be contrary to another provision of the United States Code . 
Refund claims Section 203 of the United States Code voids an assignment of a claim against the Government unless made after it has been allowed , the amount due has been ascertained , and a warrant for its payment has been issued . 
If it were not for judicial development of certain exceptions , this section would prohibit a suit for refund by an acquiring corporation for taxes paid by a transferor corporation , even though the reorganization meets the requirements of section 381(a) . 
A clearly recognized exception is a statutory merger or consolidation . 
The leading case , Seaboard Air Line Railway v. United States , held that the transferee could sue for a refund of taxes paid by the transferor , and it has been consistently followed . 
The Court said the purpose of the section was principally to spare the Government the embarrassment and trouble of dealing with several parties , one of them a stranger to the claim , and to prevent traffic in claims , particularly tenuous claims , against the Government . 
Neither reason , said the Court , applied to the case at hand ; ; furthermore , Congress could not be presumed to have intended to obstruct mergers approved by the states . 
Other exceptions are assignments for the benefit of creditors , corporate dissolutions , transfers by descent , or transfers by subrogation . 
Exceptions are often classified as transfers by `` operation of law '' . 
A tax-free reorganization not complying with the merger or consolidation statutes of the states involved is difficult to fit into an `` operation of law '' mold . 
Although it is in some ways comparable to a voluntary sale of assets for cash , to which section 203 quite clearly applies , the courts and Treasury have held that acquiring corporations in several types of non-taxable reorganizations may sue for refund of taxes paid by transferors . 
A recent case in point is Mitchell Canneries v. United States , in which a claim against the Government was transferred first from a corporation to a partnership , whose partners were former stockholders , and then to another corporation formed by the partners . 
Holding the final corporation entitled to sue on the claim , the Court cited the Seaboard , Novo Trading , and Roomberg cases for the proposition that `` transfers by operation of law or in conjunction with changes of corporate structure are not assignments prohibited by the statute '' . 
In an earlier case , Kingan & Co. v. United States , an American corporation was formed for the purpose of acquiring the stock of a British corporation in exchange for its own stock and then liquidating the British corporation . 
The anti-assignment statute was held not to prevent the American corporation from suing for a refund of taxes paid by the British corporation . 
The transaction presumably would have qualified under section 368(a)(1) as a contractual reorganization , followed by a section 332 liquidation , but not under section 368(a)(1) as a statutory merger of consolidation . 
The Court , nevertheless , relied on the Seaboard case and also mentioned that the shareholders of the two corporations were the same . 
In substance , said the Court , there was no transfer of equitable title . 
The Treasury arrives at substantially the same conclusion , but skirts the problem of section 203 of the United States Code . 
Revenue Ruling 54-17 provides that if the corporation against which a tax was assessed has since been liquidated by merger with a successor corporation , a claim for refund should be filed by the successor in the name and on behalf of the corporation which paid the tax , followed by the name of the successor corporation . 
Proper evidence of the liquidation and succession must also be filed . 
If the succession is a matter of public record , certificates of the Secretaries of State or other public officials having custody of the documents will suffice ; ; if the succession is not of record , all documents relating to such succession , properly certified , are required . 
The former proof seems applicable to a statutory merger or consolidation , the latter to a contractual acquisition . 
The Ruling would not , however , apply to an acquisition of assets for cash . 
A recent Ruling , although rather confusing , cites and follows Rev. Rul. 54-17 . 
The Ruling suggests also that it applies to either a statutory or contractual reorganization . 
Hence , a successor corporation in a C reorganization appears entitled to sue for a refund of taxes paid by the merged corporation despite section 203 . 
In a B reorganization , followed by a section 332 liquidation , those cases which hold that section 203 is inapplicable to transfers in liquidation appear to permit the successor corporation to sue for refund of taxes paid by the transferor . 
In fact , a cash purchase of a corporation's stock followed by liquidation might also be an effective way to transfer a claim for refund if the Kimbell-Diamond doctrine is not applied to eliminate the intermediate step . 
These results appear sound . 
As stated in Seaboard and numerous other cases , the two primary reasons for the enactment of section 203 of the United States Code were to prevent the Government from having to deal with more than one claimant and to prevent the assignment of meretricious claims on a contingent-fee basis . 
The cases have allowed transfer of claims if beneficial ownership is not changed . 
The first reason would never apply to a reorganization transfer which meets the conditions of section 381(a) , which is the only type presently under discussion . 
Section 381(a) applies only to a transfer by liquidation of a subsidiary owned to the extent of at least 80 per cent , a statutory merger or consolidation , an acquisition of substantially all a corporation's assets solely in exchange for voting stock , or a change of identity , form , or place of organization . 
In virtually every case the transferor corporation is liquidated , and its former stockholders either own outright , or have a continuing stock interest in , the assets which gave rise to the tax . 
In these circumstances the possibility of multiple or conflicting claims is exceedingly remote . 
Furthermore , in a C reorganization the continuing interest of stockholders of the corporation which paid the tax must be greater than is necessary in a statutory merger , to which the statute is clearly inapplicable . 
Nor is it at all likely that a `` desperate '' claim against the Government will be assigned on a contingent-fee basis in the guise of a tax-free reorganization . 
If the transferor has substantial assets other than the claim , it seems reasonable to assume no corporation would be willing to acquire all of its properties in the dim hope of collecting a claim for refund of taxes . 
If such an unlikely transaction were to take place , it would more logically be accomplished by a stock purchase , followed by the prosecution of the claim by the wholly-owned subsidiary , followed by liquidation . 
In the rare case where a corporation's only substantial asset , or its most important one , is a claim for refund , perhaps its transfer should not be permitted , whether the reorganization takes the form of a statutory merger or of the acquisition of assets for stock . 
It appears , then , that although the matter is not dealt with in section 381(c) , a successor corporation in a reorganization of a type specified in section 381(a) is entitled to sue for refund of taxes paid by a transferor corporation . 
Section 203 of the United States Code has been interpreted as not applying to claims against the Government transferred in tax-free reorganizations . 
The successor corporations have been held entitled to sue on such claims . 
Other tax attributes of the transferor There are certain tax attributes of a corporation whose nature and effect might depend on the facts of the particular reorganization involved . 
For example , property `` used in the trade or business '' of a transferor corporation , as defined in section 1231 , presumably would not retain its special status following a non-taxable reorganization if it is not so used in the business of the acquiring corporation . 
The parent of a group filing consolidated returns might be treated as the same corporation following a reorganization defined in section 368(a)(1) , but as a different corporation for this purpose after a tax-free acquisition by another corporation which had not , for example , elected to file consolidated returns with its own subsidiaries . 
Similar considerations presumably made it difficult to prescribe a general rule where the acquired and acquiring corporations have different methods of accounting ( section 381(c)(4) ) or depreciation ( section 381(c)(6) ) . 
Other sections of the 1954 Internal Revenue Code provide for survival of certain of a transferor's tax attributes following a tax-free reorganization . 
Section 362 requires carryover of the transferor corporation's basis for property transferred , and section 1223 provides for tacking on the transferor's holding period for such property to that of the transferee . 
Section 169 permits a person acquiring grain-storage facilities to elect to continue amortization over a 60-month period . 
However , a similar privilege was not specifically provided in section 168 for a person acquiring emergency facilities . 
Attributes similar to a loss carryover . 
There may be certain items which are quite similar to a net operating loss carryover or operating deficit and whose right to survive a reorganization should perhaps be subject to the conditions applicable to those items . 
For example , suppose another excess profits tax similar to prior laws is enacted , providing for carryover of excess profits credits . 
This carryover right has a number of things in common with a net operating loss carryover . 
It is an averaging device intended to ease the tax burden of fluctuating income ; ; it is a tax benefit which might be of substantial value to a corporation which expects to have a high excess profits tax . 
Under the 1939 Code this item was permitted to survive a tax-free reorganization in the Stanton Brewery case , but only over the dissent of Judge Learned Hand , who wrote the majority opinion in the Sansome case , a leading case requiring carryover of earnings and profits in a non-taxable reorganization . 
Since this type of item was not in the statute when section 381 was enacted in 1954 , one cannot say with certainty what effect the enactment of that section should have . 
With respect to this type of item , one might properly apply the language of the Committee Report , quoted above , which cautions against using section 381 as a basis for treating other tax attributes not mentioned therein . 
Actually , there do not presently appear to be items in the statute comparable to a net operating loss carryover . 
Probably the primary reason for special treatment of a net operating loss carryover is the unique opportunity it presents for tax avoidance . 
A . 
Reasons for selecting mail questionnaire method There were two methods that could have been used for conducting the study within the resources available : ( 1 ) interviews in depth with a few selected companies , and ( 2 ) the more limited interrogation of a large number of companies by means of a mail questionnaire . 
While the method of interviewing a small number of companies was appealing because of the opportunity it might have furnished to probe fully the reasons and circumstances of a company's practices and opinions , it also involved the risk of paying undue attention to the unique and peculiar problems of just a few individual companies . 
As a result , it was decided that a mail questionnaire sent to a large number of companies would be more effective in determining the general practices and opinions of small firms and in highlighting some of the fundamental and recurring problems of defense procurement that concern both industry and government . 
It was also hoped that responses to a mail questionnaire would suggest fruitful inquiries that might be made in subsequent studies of a more detailed nature . 
It is recognized that a mail questionnaire has inherent limitations . 
There is the danger that the questions will mean different things to different respondents . 
Simple `` yes '' or `` no '' answers do not reveal the different shades of opinion that the various respondents may have . 
A respondent may want to make alternative answers because he does not know the precise circumstances assumed in the question . 
There is also the problem of the respondent's frame of reference . 
Is the respondent making a recommendation for his own benefit , for the benefit of his industry , for the benefit of a specific government department or service , for the benefit of the defense program , for the benefit of small business , or for the benefit of the taxpayers ? 
There is also the question of whether the respondent based his answers on factual information and carefully considered judgment , or whether his answers were casual guesses . 
Finally , there is the question of how strongly an expressed opinion is held -- whether it is a firm opinion or one that the respondent favors only slightly over the alternatives . 
The research team was very mindful of these dangers and limitations of a mail questionnaire . 
Under the circumstances , however , the team considered it would provide the most useful information at this point . 
In the preparation of the questionnaire the problems noted above were carefully considered , and the structure and phraseology used were designed to minimize the effects of these limitations . 
B . 
Design of the questionnaire The questionnaire was designed to elicit three types of information : ( 1 ) the facts regarding certain characteristics of the respondents , including their experience with , and interest in , securing defense business ; ; ( 2 ) the actual selling and buying practices of the respondents ; ; and ( 3 ) the attitudes and opinions of the respondents concerning bidding procedures and the methods of awarding defense contracts . 
It was hoped that the facts concerning the characteristics and practices of the respondents would offer clues to the reasons why they took the positions and made the recommendations which they did . 
The major sections of the questionnaire ( see Appendix B ) are devoted to the following : 1 . 
Information for classifying respondents ( Part A of the questionnaire ) 2 . 
Characteristics of defense sales activities ( Part B of the questionnaire ) 3 . 
Respondents' practices in participating in advertised bidding for defense business ( Part C of the questionnaire ) 4 . 
Respondents' practices in participating in negotiated bidding for defense purposes ( Part D of the questionnaire ) 5 . 
Respondents' opinions regarding advertised bidding ( Part E of the questionnaire ) 6 . 
Respondents' opinions regarding negotiated bidding ( Part F of the questionnaire ) 7 . 
Respondents' preferences regarding the methods of awarding defense contracts ( Part G of the questionnaire ) The questionnaire provided a place for the name of the respondent but stated that identification of the respondent was optional . 
The questionnaire also stated that , in any event , all replies would be treated confidentially . 
It is interesting to note that 75 per cent of those who returned the questionnaire identified themselves . 
C . 
Preparation and pretest of the questionnaire The research team prepared and then revised the questionnaire over a period of six months . 
In June , 1960 , an early draft of the questionnaire , along with a cover letter , was mailed to fourteen companies in the state of Washington . 
Several days after the companies had received the questionnaire , members of the research team contacted the presidents of eleven of these companies in person or by phone to discuss any ambiguities or difficulties the addressees might have experienced in completing the questionnaire . 
This test resulted in further revisions of the questionnaire . 
The research team was concerned that responses from firms in the state of Washington might not be typical of those throughout the country , or that the results might be different when no phone or personal follow-up was made . 
Accordingly , another test of the questionaire was made . 
The revised draft was mailed in July , 1960 , to 100 firms throughout the United States . 
Fifty of the 100 firms were selected on a random basis from 3,500 names submitted by member companies of the Aerospace Industries Association ( AIA list ) and fifty were selected in a similar manner from a list of 1,500 names compiled by the research team from the Thomas Register ( TR list ) . 
The method of compiling the AIA and TR lists will be described later . 
Ten days after the questionnaires were mailed , follow-up airmail postcards were sent urging those companies which had not yet returned their questionnaires to do so at once . 
Twenty-eight returns in all were received . 
The responses were carefully checked for obvious errors in the answers or for questions that were apparently not understood by the respondent . 
The cover letter , questionnaire , and follow-up postcard were then revised into final form ( see Appendixes A , B , and C ) . 
D . 
Compilation of mailing lists The objective of the study was to determine the opinions and practices of small firms selling to defense programs . 
The firms to receive the questionnaires were selected with this objective in mind . 
Three lists of companies were made and used in the study . 
The first was a list of fourteen manufacturing companies located in the state of Washington which were personally known to the research team to be active in defense work . 
The primary consideration in the compilation of this list was convenience in discussing the questionnaire with company officers . 
The second list was derived from a group of approximately 8,000 names supplied to the research team by the Aerospace Industries Association . 
These names were secured from member companies by the Association from the forty-four sources listed in Appendix Aj . 
Each source selected from its approved bidders list about 200 firms which it believed to be small businesses that participated in the production of weapons and weapon support systems . 
Where possible , the name of an executive was supplied along with the company name and address . 
The forty-four lists supplied by the AIA member companies were merged and duplicate names were eliminated . 
There was further elimination of all companies that were not accompanied by the name of a responsible company executive . 
The remaining names were then checked against the Thomas Register list ( see below ) and duplicate names were removed from the AIA lists . 
By these steps the final AIA list was reduced from 8,000 to 3,500 . 
The third list was selected by the research team on a random basis from the Thomas Register . 
It was compiled as a control sample to determine if the opinions and practices of companies on the lists submitted by the members of the Aerospace Industries Association were materially different from those of other small firms selling to defense programs . 
Such a difference might have resulted from : 1 . 
The fact that the Aerospace Industries Association members whose lists were used did not comprise all firms engaged in defense programs . 
2 . 
The fact that companies on the AIA lists were already participating in the defense program because of the manner of their selection . 
Accordingly , as `` in-group '' , they might have different opinions and practices than an `` out-group '' composed of those companies not so participating but interested in defense business . 
3 . 
The fact that AIA lists might not have been selected on a random basis . 
The control sample was selected by taking the bottom name of each of the two columns of names on each page of the alphabetical listing of manufacturers in the Thomas Register . 
If the bottom name in each column did not have a responsible executive identified , the next name above which identified such a responsible executive was substituted . 
Fifteen hundred names were selected in this fashion . 
E . 
Mailing the questionnaire Each questionnaire was mailed with a cover letter addressed personally to the president or other executive of each firm . 
The questionnaires were mailed in Seattle , Washington , and sent by regular mail to addresses in the states of Idaho , Montana , Oregon , and Washington . 
Airmail was used for the addresses outside the Pacific Northwest . 
Each letter contained a postage-prepaid return envelope by regular mail for addresses in the Pacific Northwest , and by airmail for those outside the Pacific Northwest . 
Approximately ten days after the questionnaire was mailed , a follow-up airmail postcard was sent to each of the original names . 
The first test mailing ( to 14 companies ) was made in June , 1960 . 
The second test mailing ( to 100 companies ) was made in July , 1960 . 
The final mailing of the questionnaire was made late in August , 1960 , to 4,900 firms consisting of 3,450 from the AIA list and 1,450 from the TR list . 
F . 
Returns received Over 1,000 returns were received within two weeks after the final mailing was made . 
They continued to arrive until the end of December , 1960 , by which time a total of 1,343 returns were received representing 26.8 per cent of the 5,014 questionnaires sent out . 
Fifty-seven returns could not be used because they were incomplete or received too late to be processed . 
The remaining 1,286 returns that were processed came from the categories in Table 2 . 
G . 
Processing the returns Each questionnaire was audited for obvious mistakes and for comments , and was identified by a serial number , by the source list from which the company name was selected , and by the geographical location of the company as determined by the postmark on the return envelope . 
All responses , except comments , were numerically coded to permit use of data-processing equipment . 
The codes were key-punched into IBM punch cards and verified . 
Each return required three cards and involved key punching 228 digital columns . 
In order to be able to properly relate the data for a single company each of the three cards comprising the set for each firm was identified with the appropriate serial number of the respondent . 
The cards were then processed using standard IBM punch card equipment , including an IBM 650 computer . 
The first step in processing was to analyze the returns from Questions 1 , 2 , and 3 to determine whether the respondents were large businesses or small businesses , in accordance with the definitions contained in ASPR Section 1-701 . 
( see Chapter 2 . 
) The results are shown in Table 3 . 
The returns from companies classified as large businesses were set aside and not used because they were not relevant to a study of the opinions and practices of small firms . 
The second step in processing was to compare the responses from companies on the AIA list with those from companies on the TR list in order to determine whether it would be appropriate to merge the responses for the purposes of the study . 
The methods and results of this comparative analysis are described in Appendix Aj . 
It was concluded that it would be appropriate to process the two groups of responses as a single sample of all small businesses engaged in , or wishing to sell to , defense programs . 
In the first place , the two groups of firms , when combined , had characteristics and practices that were more representative of companies that were the subject of this study than did the firms from the AIA list alone . 
The vast Central Valley of California is one of the most productive agricultural areas in the world . 
During the summer of 1960 , it became the setting for a bitter and basic labor-management struggle . 
The contestants in this economic struggle are the Agricultural Workers Organizing Committee ( AWOC ) of the AFL-CIO and the agricultural employers of the State . 
By virtue of the legal responsibilities of the Department of Employment in the farm placement program , we necessarily found ourselves in the middle between these two forces . 
It is not a pleasant or easy position , but one we have endeavored to maintain . 
We have sought to be strictly neutral as between the parties , but at the same time we have been required frequently to rule on specific issues or situations as they arose . 
Inevitably , one side was pleased and the other displeased , regardless of how we ruled . 
Often the displeased parties interpreted our decision as implying favoritism toward the other . 
We have consoled ourselves with the thought that this is a normal human reaction and is one of the consequences of any decision in an adversary proceeding . 
It is disconcerting , nevertheless , to read in a labor weekly , `` Perluss knuckles down to growers '' , and then to be confronted with a growers' publication which states , `` Perluss recognizes obviously phony and trumped-up strikes as bona fide '' . 
For a number of years , there have been sporadic attempts in California to organize farm workers . 
These attempts met with little sucess for a variety of reasons . 
They were inadequately financed , without experienced leadership , and lacked the general support of organized labor as a whole . 
This past year the pattern has been different : The organizing program had the full support of the AFL-CIO , which supplied staff and money to the AWOC , as well as moral support . 
Leadership was experienced and skillful , and financial resources were significant . 
Regardless of where personal sympathies may lie as between the parties , failure to recognize these changed conditions would be to ignore the facts of life . 
As a result of these changed conditions , the impact of the organizational effort on agricultural labor-management relations has been much greater than in the past . 
The AWOC has been able to employ the traditional weapons of labor -- the strike and the picket line -- with considerable success , particularly in the area of wages . 
By the very nature of the situation , it is the union which has been able to select the time and place to bring pressure upon management . 
To date , at least , the strategy of the AWOC has been selective ; ; that is to say , to concentrate on a particular crop or activity in a particular area at a strategic time , rather than any broadside engagement with management throughout an area or the State . 
Primarily , we became involved in these disputes because of our referral obligations under our farm placement program . 
Normally , because agricultural labor is not covered by unemployment insurance , we would not expect any issues to arise regarding benefit payments under the trade dispute provision of the Unemployment Insurance Code , although such a situation is quite within the realm of possibility . 
But the current issues arose out of the Wagner-Peyser Act concerning referrals to an establishment where a labor dispute exists , and out of Public Law 78 and the Migrant Labor Agreement if Mexican nationals were employed at the ranch . 
Most of us remember and think of the Wagner-Peyser Act in its historical sense , as a major milestone in the development of public placement services . 
Infrequently do we think of it as a living , continuing , operating control over the system . 
However , when labor disputes arise , its provisions come clearly into play . 
California has accepted the provisions of that Act ( as have all other States ) by enacting into our Code ( Section 2051 ) a provision that The State of California accepts the provisions of the Wagner-Peyser Act , and will observe and comply with the requirements of that act . 
With respect to labor disputes , the Wagner-Peyser Act states only , In carrying out the provisions of this Act , the Secretary is authorized and directed to provide for the giving of notice of strikes or lock-outs to applicants before they are referred to employment . 
Other provisions of the Act empower the Secretary to adopt regulations necessary to carry out its provisions , and he has done so . 
The pertinent regulation for our purposes is Section 602.2 ( , ) , as follows : Referrals in labor dispute situations . 
No person shall be referred to a position the filling of which will aid directly or indirectly in filling a job which ( 1 ) is vacant because the former occupant is on strike or is being locked out in the course of a labor dispute , or ( 2 ) the filling of which is an issue in a labor dispute . 
With respect to positions not covered by subparagraph ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) of this paragraph , any individual may be referred to a place of employment in which a labor dispute exists , provided he is given written notice of such dispute prior to or at the time of his referral . 
In analyzing this regulation , let us take the last sentence first . 
It permits referrals under certain circumstances even when there is a labor dispute , provided the individual is given written notice of such a dispute . 
Assume , for example , a situation where a farm has a packing shed and fields . 
The packing shed workers go on strike . 
There is no dispute involving fieldwork . 
We concluded that we may refer workers to the fieldwork ( but not the packing shed work ) provided we give them written notice of the packing shed dispute . 
So far , no troublesome cases have arisen under this provision . 
It is the first part of the Regulation that is currently at issue . 
Note that it prohibits referrals under either condition ( 1 ) or condition ( 2 ) . 
Employer representatives have contended that the Secretary has gone beyond his authority by such a prohibition , on the grounds that the Wagner-Peyser Act requires only written notice to the prospective worker that a dispute exists . 
Into court The matter got into the courts this way : One of the early strikes called by the AWOC was at the DiGiorgio pear orchards in Yuba County . 
We found that a labor dispute existed , and that the workers had left their jobs , which were then vacant because of the dispute . 
Accordingly , under clause ( 1 ) of the Secretary's Regulation , we suspended referrals to the employer . 
( Incidentally , no Mexican nationals were involved . 
) The employer , seeking to continue his harvest , challenged our right to cease referrals to him , and sought relief in the Superior Court of Yuba County . 
The court issued a temporary restraining order , directing us to resume referrals . 
We , of course , obeyed the court order . 
However , the Attorney General of California , at the request of the Secretary of Labor , sought to have the jurisdiction over the issue removed to the Federal District Court , on grounds that it was predominantly a Federal issue since the validity of the Secretary's Regulation was being challenged . 
However , the Federal Court held that since the State had accepted the provisions of the Wagner-Peyser Act into its own Code , and presumably therefore also the regulations , it was now a State matter . 
It accordingly refused to assume jurisdiction , whereupon the California Superior Court made the restraining order permanent . 
Under that order , we have continued referring workers to the ranch . 
A similar case arose at the Bowers ranch in Butte County , and the Superior Court of that county issued similar restraining orders . 
The growers have strenuously argued that I should have accepted the Superior Court decisions as conclusive and issued statewide instructions to our staff to ignore this provision in the Secretary's Regulation . 
I cannot accept that view , either as a lawyer or as an administrator . 
Legal considerations First , let us examine briefly some of the legal considerations involved . 
It is an accepted juridical principle in California that a Superior Court decision does not constitute a binding legal precedent . 
It is conclusive , unless appealed , only upon the particular parties to the particular action which was heard . 
It is not binding upon another Superior Court , which could rule to the contrary . 
Only when a decision is rendered by the District Court of Appeal ( or , of course , the Supreme Court ) is a binding precedent established . 
In that event , we can correctly say that we have received an authoritative interpretation of the matter , and one which we can follow statewide with confidence that the policy will not be overthrown in other Superior Courts . 
But over and beyond the compelling need for a binding precedent decision , I am convinced that the decisions of the Superior Courts which in effect nullify the Secretary's Regulation are not a correct interpretation of the Secretary's power under the Federal law . 
I believe I am in good company in this view . 
The Attorney General of California concurs in this interpretation and has filed an appeal from these decisions to the District Court of Appeal . 
The Attorney General of the United States , in considering the power of the Secretary to issue similar regulations under the Wagner-Peyser Act relating to the interstate recruitment of farm workers , has rendered an opinion sustaining his authority . 
Further , and as an evidence of legislative intent only , the Senate of the United States recently defeated by a substantial majority the `` Holland Amendment '' to the Fair Labor Standards Act , which would have specifically limited the regulatory authority of the Secretary in these matters . 
Next , let us consider briefly the program and administrative implications of a failure on our part to pursue our appeals . 
There is far too much at stake for all of the parties concerned to leave the matter hanging in midair . 
The ramifications of the issue are enormous . 
A decision to refer workers to jobs vacant because of a strike would have to be applied equally to nonagricultural situations , and might in effect place the public employment services in the position of acting as strikebreakers . 
The public interest is so dominant in such an issue that I cannot be so presumptuous as to attempt to settle it by an administrative order based upon conclusions reached in a summary action in one or two Superior Courts in the State . 
It is an issue which may well reach the Supreme Court of the United States before judicial finality is achieved . 
As an administrator , I cannot place the Employment Service in California in jeopardy of being out of compliance with the Federal laws by my failure to pursue the avenues of appeal open to me . 
To have applied statewide the decisions of the two cases heard in Superior Court , in my opinion , would have placed us clearly out of compliance with the Wagner-Peyser Act and would have immediately opened the way for the Secretary of Labor , were he so inclined , to notify the Governor of such noncompliance , set a date for hearing , and issue his finding . 
The impact of noncompliance under the Wagner-Peyser Act is clear : the withdrawal of some $11 million a year of administrative funds which finance our employment service program or , as a corollary , the taking over by the Federal Government of its operation . 
Thus far , the cases which have come before the courts have involved only the issue of referral where the job is vacant due to a strike -- condition ( 1 ) in the Regulation of the Secretary . 
None has yet arisen under condition ( 2 ) , relating to referral to jobs `` the filling of which is an issue in a labor dispute '' . 
Here the problem is essentially one of defining the word `` filling '' . 
Should it be defined in a narrow sense to include only such elements as job specifications , union membership , union jurisdiction , and the like ? 
Or should it have a broader connotation of including wage demands and other factors not necessarily associated with the mechanics of `` filling '' the job . 
Because of the uncertainty of this definition , I solicited the interpretation of the Secretary of Labor . 
He has advised me that the narrower interpretation is the proper one ; ; that is , that if wages , for example , is the only issue in a labor dispute , and no workers have left their jobs because of the dispute , we may continue to make referrals . 
9 . 
Martin and Stendler present evidence that infants and young children can and do solve many problems at a relatively simple perceptual level simply by combining objects and counting them . 
After they have developed concepts , they are free from the necessity of manipulating objects ; ; they do symbolically what they once had to do concretely . 
The ability to think seems to increase consistently with age . 
One experiment showed the greatest one-year difference occurring between the eleventh and twelfth years . 
10 . 
Many studies indicate that elementary-school children's interests cover the whole field of science ; ; that their questions indicate a genuine interest in social processes and events ; ; and that as they mature their interests and capabilities change and broaden . 
Emotional characteristics How a child feels about himself , about other people , and about the tasks confronting him in school may have as much influence on his success in school as his physical and intellectual characteristics . 
A considerable amount of evidence exists to show that an unhappy and insecure child is not likely to do well in school subjects . 
Emotional maturity is the result of many factors , the principal ones being the experiences of the first few years of the child's life . 
However , the teacher who understands the influence of emotions on behavior may be highly influential in helping pupils gain confidence , security , and satisfaction . 
Concerning this responsibility of the teacher , suggestions for helping children gain better control of the emotions are presented in Chapter 11 . 
The following generalizations about the emotional characteristics of elementary-school children may be helpful . 
1 . 
Typically , the young child's emotional reactions last for a relatively short time , as contrasted to those of an adult . 
2 . 
As the child grows older , his emotional reactions lead to `` moods '' , or emotional states drawn out over a period of time and expressed slowly , rather than in short , abrupt outbursts . 
3 . 
Studies of the growth and decline of children's fears indicate that fears due to strange objects , noises , falling , and unexpected movement decline during the preschool years , but that fears of the dark , of being alone , and of imaginary creatures or robbers increase . 
4 . 
Ridiculing a child for being afraid or forcing him to meet the feared situation alone are poor ways of dealing with the problem ; ; more effective solutions include explanations , the example of another child , or conditioning by associating the feared object , place , or person with something pleasant . 
5 . 
Children need help in learning to control their emotions . 
The young child learns from parents and teachers that temper tantrums , screaming , kicking , and hitting will not get him what he wants ; ; the older child learns that intense emotional outbursts will not win approval by his peers , and , therefore , makes a real effort to control his emotions . 
6 . 
Children differ widely in their emotional responses . 
Among infants the patterns of emotional responses are similar ; ; as the influence of learning and environment are felt , emotional behavior becomes individualized . 
Social characteristics Although no national norms exist for the social development of children , the teacher can find a great deal of information concerning types of social behavior normally displayed by children at various age levels . 
The following summary will give the student some idea about the social characteristics of elementary-school children ; ; the student will certainly want to explore more deeply into the fascinating study of immature individuals , struggling to meet their developmental needs , and at the same time trying to learn the rules of the game in the ever-expanding number of groups in which they hold membership . 
1 . 
During early childhood , children are more interested in the approval of their parents and teachers than they are in the approval of other children ; ; after they have been in school a few years , their interest in playmates of their own age increases , and their interest in adults decreases ; ; the child who had once considered it a treat to accompany his parents on picnics and family gatherings now considers it a bore . 
In late childhood the influence of the group on the social behavior of the child continues to increase ; ; the group sets the styles in clothing , the kind of play engaged in , and the ideals of right and wrong behavior . 
2 . 
In early childhood the choice of a companion is likely to be for another child of his own age or a year or two older , who can do the things he likes to do ; ; such factors as sex , intelligence , and status in the group do not influence his choice much at this time . 
3 . 
In later childhood , an interest in team games replaces individual play ; ; loyalty to the group , a feeling of superiority over those who are not members , and unwillingness to play with members of the opposite sex become dominant traits . 
4 . 
During early childhood boys tease and bully , on the average , more than girls ; ; those who feel inferior or insecure engage in these activities more than do well-adjusted children . 
5 . 
During late childhood boys like to tease , jostle , and talk smart to girls ; ; girls , who are more mature than boys , frown upon the youthful antics of boys of their own age . 
6 . 
By the time pupils reach the sixth grade , their ethical and moral standards are fairly well developed ; ; they exhibit a keen interest in social , political , and economic problems , but they frequently have vague and incorrect notions about the terms they use rather glibly in their routine school work . 
7 . 
Between the ages of two and four years , negativism or resistance to adult authority is noticeable ; ; after the fourth year it begins to decline . 
However , as we have seen , in later childhood the child begins to substitute the standards of the peer group for those of parents and teachers . 
8 . 
The elementary-school child grows gradually in his ability to work in groups . 
The child in the primary grades can play harmoniously with one companion , but his desire to be first in everything gets him into trouble when the group gets larger ; ; he wants to be with people , but he hasn't yet learned to cooperate . 
In the middle grades , however , he begins to participate more effectively in group activities such as selecting a leader , helping to make plans and carry on group activities , and setting up rules governing the enterprise . 
Why the teacher should study the individual pupil Much progress has been made in the last two decades in developing techniques for understanding children , yet in almost any classroom today can be found children whose needs are not being met by the school program . 
Some are failing to achieve as much as their ability would permit ; ; others never seem able to enter fully into the life of the classroom . 
These children have been described as those who were trying to say something to adults who did not understand . 
Many school systems now employ school psychologists and child guidance specialists . 
These specialists perform valuable services by helping teachers learn to identify children who need special attention , by suggesting ways of meeting the needs of individual children in the regular classroom , and by providing clinical services for severely maladjusted children . 
It is the classroom teacher , however , who has daily contacts with pupils , and who is in a unique position to put sound psychological principles into practice . 
Indeed , a study of the individual child is an integral part of the work of the elementary-school teacher , rather than merely an additional chore . 
Teachers and administrators in many elementary schools have assumed that dividing the pupils in any grade into groups on the basis of test scores solves the problem of meeting the needs of individuals . 
What they should recognize is that children who have been placed in one of these groups on a narrow academic basis still differ widely in attributes that influence success , and that they still must be treated as individuals . 
Although the teacher must be concerned with maintaining standards , he must also be concerned about understanding differences in ability , background , and experience . 
Factors that inhibit learning and lead to maladjustment Studies conducted in various sections of the United States indicate that many children in elementary schools are maladjusted emotionally , and that many of them are failing to make satisfactory progress in school subjects . 
One study , which involved 1,524 pupils in grades one to six , found that 12 percent of the pupils were seriously maladjusted and that 23 percent were reading a year below capacity . 
It is apparent , therefore , that the teacher needs to know what factors have a vital bearing on the learning and adjustment of children . 
When a child fails to meet the standards of the school in his rate of learning , insecurity , unhappiness , and other forms of maladjustment frequently follow . 
These maladjustments in turn inhibit learning , and a vicious cycle is completed . 
It is easy for the teacher to rationalize that the child who is not achieving in accordance with his known ability is just plain lazy , or that the child who lacks interest in school , who dislikes the teacher , or who is overaggressive is a hopeless delinquent . 
The causes of retardation and maladjustment may be found in physical factors , such as defective speech or hearing , impaired vision , faulty motor coordination , a frail constitution , chronic disease , malnutrition , and glandular malfunctioning . 
They may be caused by poor health habits , such as faulty eating and sleeping habits . 
They may be related to mental immaturity or lack of aptitude for certain types of school work . 
The curriculum may be too difficult for some and too easy for others . 
Teaching methods , learning materials , and promotion policies may inhibit learning and lead to maladjustments for some children . 
Unwholesome family relations , broken homes , and undesirable community influences may also be contributing factors . 
This is only a minimum list of the factors that inhibit learning and contribute to maladjustment among children . 
Moreover , these conditions do not influence all children in the same manner . 
A vision handicap that may produce nervous tension and reading disability for one child may spur another child on to even greater achievement in reading . 
An impoverished home that may discourage one child may constitute the motivation causing another to work harder for successful achievement in school . 
At any rate , the teacher who recognizes common causes of retardation and maladjustment can frequently do a great deal to eliminate the causes of pupil discouragement , failure , and maladjustment . 
Sources of information about children Successful teaching involves getting enough information about each pupil to understand why he behaves as he does in certain situations and how his achievement in school is being influenced by various factors in his environment . 
The classroom teacher cannot be expected to be as proficient in the use of the techniques of child study as the clinical psychologist ; ; he cannot be expected to administer all the tests and gather all the information needed about each child in his classroom . 
He can be expected , however , to examine and interpret the information already available ; ; to refine and extend his own techniques for studying individual children ; ; and to utilize opportunities , arising in connection with regular classroom activities , for gaining a better understanding of his pupils . 
This section deals with some of the sources of information that can be tapped by the classroom teacher ; ; Chapter 15 provides more detailed information about specific techniques used in evaluating pupil progress . 
Cumulative records Most school systems today maintain a system of cumulative records of pupils . 
These records , when systematically maintained , provide much information about the children , which the teacher can use in guidance , instruction , grouping , and reporting to parents . 
Each teacher has in his classroom a metal file , equipped with a lock , which is used to store cumulative record folders . 
During summer vacation periods these records are stored in the office of the principal . 
Only the teacher and other professional personnel are permitted to see or use these records . 
Each new teacher to whom the pupil goes is expected to study the information in the cumulative record and to bring it up to date . 
Some school systems provide written instructions to principals and teachers designating when certain information is to be recorded on cumulative record forms and explaining how the information is to be summarized and used . 
The Summary Report On Desegregation Progress In Education In The Middle-South Region , 1959 - 1960 '' clearly shows two pieces of information . 
The Summary Report , which was prepared for this Conference , indicates , first , that actual or pending school desegregation is increasing ; ; second , that both actual and pending desegregation is , with few exceptions , the product or result of court order . 
The Report together with other information suggests that desegregation in the schools is slow . 
The Middle-South Region , as defined by the National Association of Intergroup Relations Officials ( NAIRO ) , consists of the states of Kentucky , Maryland , Tennessee , West Virginia , Delaware , Virginia and the District of Columbia . 
The states and the Nation's Capital all have some desegregation , in fact some dating back to 1954 ; ; but the region also embraces some of the staunchest opposition . 
Desegregation has been opposed by massive resistance , interposition , pupil assignment ( with no assignments of Negro children ) , and hate bombings . 
Desegregation and court order Now let's look at the evidence that shows the increase in desegregation and such increase as a result of court order . 
First Kentucky . 
Elementary school desegregation came to Owen and Union Counties , which already had high school desegregation . 
The action was a result of a court order , the citation for which ( and for other court action mentioned in this paper ) is taken from the Summary Report for this Conference . 
In Maryland the Harford County Board of Education had prepared a desegregation plan which the Court approved but which a plaintiff had challenged ; ; thus , county school board and Federal court joined hands here to promote school desegregation . 
Additional school desegregation in Tennessee resulted from a court order opening a school serving children of military personnel . 
Similarly , further desegregation may come from suits pending in three Tennessee cities , Chattanooga , Knoxville , and Memphis . 
In West Virginia the number of white and Negro children attending the same school has increased almost twofold . 
There are no court decisions here . 
As in Maryland , a District court has approved an official plan of school desegregation in Delaware . 
As a result of the State Board of Education plan , Negro children entered heretofore white elementary schools in five districts . 
The Third Circuit Court of Appeals is reviewing an appeal from the plan . 
In Virginia court orders led to desegregation in Charlottesville and Floyd Counties . 
Desegregation in Pulaski County is pending because of court order , although date of admission is not yet determined . 
Negro parents have filed application for admission of additional children to schools in Alexandria , Arlington , Fairfax , and Warren Counties . 
Desegregation can also result from additional suits brought by Negro plaintiffs against school boards in Newport News , Fairfax County , Arlington County , and Norfolk . 
As a school district , the District of Columbia has had desegregated schools since 1954 , shortly after the Supreme Court decision . 
This recapitulation makes it clear that school desegregation continues , including the Old Dominion State , in spite of its stern resistance . 
The record is clear that increase in school desegregation last year came largely as a result of a court order ; ; that on the immediate horizon , if further large-scale ( relatively speaking ) desegregation comes , it will result from court orders on suits filed in several Middle-South states . 
Knowledge that thousands of school districts are involved and observation that school desegregation has occurred in only a handful in 1959-1960 leads to a conclusion that desegregation-from-court-order is slow . 
Before turning to my views as to the problems and issues before us at this Regional Conference , I wish to note a small item in the Summary Report as it refers to the District of Columbia . 
That reference in the Report is `` continuation of the trend toward an all-Negro school system '' , a remark apparently occasioned by the increase of Negro school population from 74.1 per cent to 76.7 per cent . 
I see no real prospects for an all-Negro school population . 
West of Rock Creek Park is still monolithically white and is in fact increasingly white as a result of Georgetown's conversion-by-renovation housing program . 
Nearby Foggy Bottom is ousting Negroes . 
The large acreage in the Southwest Redevelopment area beckons white people -- what with high-priced town houses and elevator apartments . 
The Capitol Hill rehabilitation , like Foggy Bottom , replaces Negroes with whites ( but also replaces some whites with other whites ) . 
The sharpest break with tradition , the past and present of `` White Ring Around a Black Core '' , may come with the opening of nearby Montgomery County suburbs to Negro residents and , presumably , the consequent conclusion of some whites that they cannot escape the Negro by fleeing to the suburbs . 
In fact , short of fleeing to Warrenton , Virginia , or Rockville , Maryland , white people may have to live with Negroes . 
All of this must be taken into account before the image of an `` all-Negro '' D.C. public school system is conjured up . 
Problems to solve From the Summary Report before us at this Conference , a number of problems are apparent . 
They vex us and perplex us but generally do not divide us like the issues which follow the problems . 
First , how can we step up the desegregation movement ? 
It is slow . 
I believe we all want more schools where white and Negro together can and do attend . 
I believe we all want no child denied admission to a school on account of his color . 
In general , members of NAIRO would certainly want a child admitted to a school nearest his residence or within his residence zone . 
How to achieve this objective is a problem , but we are not divided on what we want . 
Second , as we increase the number of desegregated school districts and schools themselves , how can we achieve this action through school board action ? 
It may be county school board or state school board action , as well as that of municipal school boards . 
Correlatively , can we reduce the role of the district courts , so that the action is that of the people of the community or other school district and not that of the law court ? 
This is a problem , and I believe there is little difference of opinion that wherever possible a local school board should devise and effect a plan of desegregation . 
Third , how can we insure a systematic and continuing group relations education in the schools ? 
Not simply a brief program when the schools are actually desegregated but a continuing program that also promotes integration , that encourages the children and teachers not to look at each other as white or Negro , but as human beings . 
Again the problem is how to get it done and in what form to offer the group relations education ; ; not whether it should be done . 
Fourth , in the segregated school system , during the period before desegregation , how can we assure equal opportunity ? 
In fact , in the desegregated school system which may have a good many schools with all-Negro population , how can we assure equal opportunity ? 
This is a problem , but we are not divided over its importance or by its existence . 
Fifth , in the segregated school system or in the all-Negro or all-white schools , how can we encourage better group relations or an improved attitude toward people who do not belong to the group ? 
Can we help children adjust to `` images of other children '' when the latter are not actually present . 
Now , the issues If we have five problems whose solution we seek in relatively united fashion , then there are twice as many issues which , I judge , sharply divide us , intergroup relations practitioners and lay people . 
Issue no. 1 . 
Pupil assignment . 
Since on the one hand school desegregation has come in Virginia hand-in-glove with pupil assignment , shall we support the plan ? 
On the basis of pupil assignment criteria , Judge Albert Bryan has assigned Negro children to formerly white schools in Arlington and Alexandria , Virginia . 
Shall we support pupil assignment ? 
On the other hand , looking at the larger picture , is it true that pupil assignment has effectively cut off , blocked , or reduced school desegregation to a `` trickle '' ? 
Shall we therefore oppose the plan ? 
This question is an issue because it likely divides us into two camps -- those for or against pupil assignment . 
Issue no. 2 . 
Teacher assignment in order to desegregate . 
In large cities like Baltimore , Louisville , and Washington , D.C. , should school desegregation be extended to all-Negro and all-white schools by assigning white and Negro teachers , respectively ? 
On the one hand do we argue the Supreme Court decision required only that a child not be denied admission to a school on account of his race ? 
Or should we argue that if we want adjustment of children to children of different races and that that is impossible in an all-something-or-the-other school , we must at least provide him some opportunity to adjust to people of another race within the school -- namely , to a teacher of another race . 
We can argue that where residence makes pupil desegregation impossible teacher assignment can create a partially desegregated situation . 
Issue no. 3 . 
The plaintiff in school desegregation cases . 
The earlier part of my statement deals with the court orders that resulted in desegregation . 
In each instance the plaintiff was a private citizen . 
In thousands of school districts , indeed , in the entire State of Mississippi , no plaintiff has come forth . 
And I have established that the action of municipal , county , or state school boards or boards of education is small , infinitesimally small in comparison with the number of districts . 
Is the requirement that the plaintiff be a person actually denied admission to a school a sound requirement ? 
Should Congress authorize the Attorney General to file suit to accomplish admission of a child to a school to which he is denied entrance ? 
Even though in civil rights legislation in 1957 and 1960 the provision for the Attorney General to act was eliminated , should we nevertheless support such a clause ? 
This is an issue , for it divides people rather sharply . 
Issue no. 4 . 
Withholding of funds to schools that deny children on account of race . 
This is the Powell Amendment , which in 1957 divided even a `` liberal '' group like the American Veterans Committee ( AVC ) . 
Should we support a clause in Federal school construction or school assistance legislation that would deny Federal funds to a school district that denies admission to a child on account of his race ? 
This is softer than earlier Powell amendments which would have denied funds to all segregated school districts . 
There is nonetheless considerable argument against the clause , softened though it be , on the grounds that Federal aid is so necessary to the public schools . 
The Federal funds limitation enlists the support of many , the opposition of quite a few . 
Issue no. 5 . 
Required public education . 
Should a political subdivision , state or county or municipality , be required to furnish public education ? 
For the school year , 1959-1960 , the Prince Edward County ( Virginia ) Board of Supervisors voted not to provide funds for public education , and the school board therefore could provide no public education -- for white or Negro children . 
Is public education in this American democracy of such importance that no child should be denied public education ? 
Or is this subject a matter of self-determination , a matter of states rights or county rights ? 
If people don't want to provide public education , should they be forced to do so ? 
Even if we marshal substantial agreement behind mandatory public education , we likely cannot expect that all the states will enact the legislation . 
Should the requirement , which must therefore be Federal in nature , be legislated by the United States Congress ? 
Or must it become law by amendment of the United States Constitution ? 
We actually have two issues in this question -- goal and method . 
Issue no. 6 . 
Federal responsibility for education of the citizens . 
If the above issue is settled by requiring public education for all citizens , Issue No. 6 may be moot . 
If , on the other hand , it is not settled , or while it is being debated and resolved , does the Federal government have a responsibility in situations like that in Prince Edward County ? 
Nearly half the children still receive no education . 
Must or should the Federal government help ? 
Should the government directly provide education for the children who want public education ? 
The next question is whether board members favor their own social classes in their roles as educational policy-makers . 
On the whole , it appears that they do not favor their own social classes in an explicit way . 
Seldom is there an issue in which class lines can be clearly drawn . 
A hypothetical issue of this sort might deal with the establishment of a free public junior college in a community where there already was a good private college which served the middle-class youth adequately but was too expensive for working-class youth . 
In situations of this sort the board generally favors the expansion of free education . 
Campbell studied the records of 172 school board members in twelve western cities over the period of 1931 - 40 and found `` little or no relationship between certain social and economic factors and school board competence '' , as judged by a panel of professional educators who studied the voting records on educational issues . 
The few cases of clear favoritism along social-class lines are as likely as not to involve representatives of the working class on the school board who favor some such practice as higher wages for janitors rather than pay increases for teachers , and such issues are not issues of educational policy . 
In general , it appears that trustees and board members attempt to represent the public interest in their administration of educational policy , and this is made easier by the fact that the dominant values of the society are middle-class values , which are generally thought to be valid for the entire society . 
There have been very few cases of explicit conflict of interest between the middle class and any other class in the field of educational policy . 
If there were more such cases , it would be easier to answer the question whether the policy-makers favor their own social classes . 
There is currently a major controversy of public education in which group interests and values are heavily engaged . 
This is the issue of segregated schools in the South . 
In this case it is primarily a matter of conflict of racial groups rather than social-class groups . 
Thus , the white middle and lower classes are arrayed against the Negro middle and lower classes . 
This conflict may be resolved in a way which will suit white middle-class people better than it suits white lower-class people . 
If this happens , there may be some class conflict in the South , with school boards and school teachers taking the middle-class position . 
The educational profession The members of the educational profession have a major voice in the determination of educational policy , their position being strongest in the universities . 
They are mostly upper-middle- and lower-middle-class people , with a few in the upper class . 
Do they make class-biased decisions ? 
In a society dominated by middle-class values and working in an institution which transmits and strengthens these social values , it is clear that the educational profession must work for the values which are characteristic of the society . 
There is no problem here . 
The problem arises , if it does arise , when the educator has to make a choice or a decision within the area of his professional competence , but which bears some relation to the social structure . 
For instance , in giving school grades or in making recommendations for the award of a college scholarship , does he consciously or unconsciously favor students of one or another social class ? 
Again , in deciding on the content and method of his teaching , does he favor a curriculum which will make his students stronger competitors in the race for higher economic status , or does he favor a curriculum which strengthens students in other ways ? 
The answers to questions such as these certainly depend to some extent upon the educator's own social-class position and also upon his social history , as well as upon his personality and what he conceives his mission to be as an educator . 
In a set of case studies of teachers with various social-class backgrounds , Wattenberg illustrates a variety of approaches to students and to teaching which depend upon the teacher's personality as well as on his social-class background . 
One upward-mobile teacher may be a hard taskmaster for lower-class pupils because she wants them to develop the attitudes and skills that will enable them to climb , while another upward-mobile teacher may be a very permissive person with lower-class pupils because he knows their disadvantages and deprivations at home , and he hopes to encourage them by friendly treatment . 
One social-class factor which plays a large part in educational policy today is the fact that a great many school and college teachers are upward mobile from urban lower-class and lower-middle-class families . 
Their own experience in the social system influences their work and attitudes as teachers . 
While this influence is a complex matter , depending upon personality factors in the individual as well as upon his social-class experience , there probably are some general statements about social-class background and educational policy that can be made with a fair degree of truth . 
Teachers who have been upward mobile probably see education as most valuable for their students if it serves students as it has served them ; ; that is , they are likely to favor a kind of education that has vocational-advancement value . 
This does not necessarily mean that such teachers will favor vocational education , as contrasted with liberal education , but they are likely to favor an approach to liberal education which has a maximal vocational-advancement value , as against a kind of `` pure '' liberal education that is not designed to help people get better jobs . 
There is no doubt that higher education since World War 2 , has moved away from `` pure '' liberal education toward greater emphasis on technology and specialization . 
There are several causes for this , one being rapid economic development with increasing numbers of of middle-class positions requiring engineering or scientific training . 
But another cause may lie in the experience of so many new postwar faculty members with their own use of education as a means of social advancement . 
Compared with the college and university faculty members of the period from 1900 to 1930 , the new postwar faculty members consist of more children of immigrants and more children of urban working-class fathers . 
Their experience is quite in contrast with that of children of upper- and upper-middle-class native-born parents , who are more likely to regard education as good for its own sake and to discount the vocational emphases in the curriculum . 
The `` public interest '' groups Educational policies are formed by several groups who are officially or unofficially appointed to act in the public interest . 
Legislators are one such group , and state legislators have major responsibility for educational legislation . 
They generally vote so as to serve their own constituency , and if the constituency should be solidly middle class or solidly lower class , they might be expected to vote and work for middle- or for lower-class interests in education . 
However , there are relatively few such political constituencies , and , as has been pointed out , there is seldom a clear-cut distinction between the educational interests of one social class and those of another . 
Another public interest group is the commission of laymen or educators which is appointed to study an educational problem and to make recommendations . 
Generally these commissions work earnestly to represent the interest of the entire society , as they conceive it . 
Nevertheless , their conclusions and recommendations cannot please everybody , and they often represent a particular economic or political point of view . 
For instance , there have been two Presidential Commissions on higher education since World War 2 . 
President Truman's Commission on Higher Education tended to take a liberal , expansionist position , while President Eisenhower's Committee on Education Beyond the High School was slightly more conservative . 
Both Commissions consisted of upper-middle- and upper-class people , who attempted to act in the public interest . 
An example of a more definite class bias is noted in proceedings of the Commission on the Financing of Higher Education sponsored by the Association of American Universities and supported by the Rockefeller Foundation and the Carnegie Corporation . 
This Commission recommended against the use of federal government funds for the assistance of private universities and against a broad program of government-supported scholarships . 
This might be said to be an upper- or an upper-middle-class bias , but the Commission published as one of its staff studies a book by Byron S. Hollingshead entitled Who Should Go To College ? 
Which recommended a federal government scholarship program . 
Furthermore , the Commission set up the Council for Financial Aid to Education as a means of encouraging private business to increase its support of private higher education . 
Thus , the Commission acted with a sense of social responsibility within the area of its own convictions about the problem of government support to private education . 
Then there are the trustees and officers of the great educational foundations , who inevitably exert an influence on educational decisions by their support or refusal to support various educational programs , experiments , and demonstrations . 
These people are practically always upper- or upper-middle-class persons , who attempt to act in what they regard as the interest of the entire society . 
Finally there are the parent organizations and the laymen's organizations such as the National Association of Parents and Teachers , and the Citizens Committee on Public Schools . 
These have an upper-middle-class leadership and a middle-class membership , with rare exceptions , where working-class parents are active in local P.-T.A. matters . 
Like the other policy-making groups , these are middle class in their educational attitudes , and they attempt to act in the general public interest , as they see it . 
In general , it appears that educational decisions and educational policies are made by people who intend to act in the interests of the society as a whole . 
They are predominantly middle- and upper-class people , and undoubtedly share the values and attitudes of those classes . 
They may be unaware of the existence of lower-class values and consequently fail to take them into account . 
But there is very little frank and conscious espousal of the interests of any one social class by the people who have the power to make decisions in education . 
They think of themselves as trustees for the entire society and try to serve the entire society . 
Attempts to influence social structure through education Educational policy in the United States has as an explicit goal the maximization of economic and cultural opportunity . 
In so far as this goal is achieved , the society becomes more fluid , artificial barriers to social mobility are reduced , and people at the lower end of the social hierarchy share more fully in the material and cultural goods of society . 
On the other hand , there is a counterbalancing purpose in education which is to pass on the advantages of the parents to their children . 
This leads to efforts at exclusiveness through private schools and to the maintenance of social stratification in the schools . 
Both of these purposes exist side by side without much overt conflict under present conditions . 
Maximizing economic and cultural opportunity The broad expansion of free education results both in raising the average economic and cultural level of the society and in promoting fluidity within the social structure . 
Fifty years ago the general raising of the school-leaving age to sixteen was an example of this movement . 
During the past decade the program has been carried on through expansion of free higher education in state universities , state colleges , and community colleges . 
The reaffirmation of American faith in the comprehensive high school , as expressed in the Conant study , is another indication of the liveliness of the ideal of maximizing opportunity through the equalizing of educational opportunity . 
The recent federal government's student-loan program is another step in the direction of making higher education more available to lower-status youth . 
It is probably more effective than the expanded scholarship programs of the past decade , because the scholarship programs mainly aided the students with the best academic records ( who were usually middle-class ) , and these students tended to use the scholarship funds to go to more expensive colleges . 
Meanwhile , the private colleges have increased their tuition rates so much that they have raised an economic barrier which dwarfs their scholarship funds . 
The gains in educational opportunity during the past decade have taken place largely in the publicly supported institutions . 
Unfortunately , however , and for reasons to be discussed in the following chapter , no rate relationships can be made completely nondiscriminatory as long as all or some of the rates must be set above marginal costs in order to yield adequate revenues . 
And this fact may explain some of the disagreements among the experts as to the more rational formulas for the apportionment of total costs among different units of service . 
One such disagreement , which will receive attention in this next chapter , concerns the question whether rates for different kinds of service , in order to avoid the attribute of discrimination , must be made directly proportional to marginal costs , or whether they should be based instead on differences in marginal costs . 
Here , the choice is that between the horns of a dilemma . 
Two major types of fully distributed cost analysis 1 . 
The double-step type Despite an ambiguity due to its failure clearly to define `` relative costs '' , the above exposition of fully distributed costing goes about as far as one can go toward expressing the basic philosophy of the practice . 
For more explicit expositions , one must distinguish different types of analyses . 
By all means the most important distinction is that between those total-cost apportionments which superimpose a distribution of admittedly unallocable cost residues on estimates of incremental or marginal costs , and those other apportionments which recognize no difference between true cost allocation and mere total-cost distribution . 
The first , or double-step , type might also be called the `` railroad type '' because of its application to railroads ( and other transportation agencies ) by the Cost Section of the Interstate Commerce Commission . 
The Cost Section distinguishes between ( directly ) variable costs and constant costs in a manner noted in the preceding chapter . 
The variable costs alone are assigned to the different units of freight traffic as representing `` long-run out-of-pocket costs '' -- a term with a meaning here not distinctly different from that of the economist's `` long-run marginal costs '' . 
There remains a residue of total costs , or total `` revenue requirements '' which , since it is found to behave as if it were constant over substantial variations in traffic density , is strictly unallocable on a cost-finding basis . 
Nevertheless , because the Cost Section has felt impelled to make some kind of a distribution of total costs , it has apportioned this residue , which it sometimes calls `` burden '' , among the units of carload traffic on a basis ( partly ton , partly ton-mile ) which is concededly quite arbitrary from the standpoint of cost determination . 
In recent years , this burden ( which includes allowances for revenue deficiencies in the passenger business and in less-than-carload freight traffic ! 
) has amounted to about one third of those total revenue requirements which the carload freight business is supposed to be called upon to meet . 
Since this book is concerned only incidentally with railroad rates , it will not attempt to analyze the methods by which the staff of the Interstate Commerce Commission has estimated out-of-pocket costs and apportioned residue costs . 
Suffice it to say that the usefulness of the latter apportionment is questionable . 
But in any event , full credit should be given to the Cost Section for its express and overt recognition of a vital distinction too often ignored in utility-cost analyses : namely , that between a cost allocation designed to reflect the actual behavior of costs in response to changes in rates of output of different classes of utility service ; ; and a mere cost apportionment which somehow spreads among the classes and units of service even those costs that are strictly unallocable from the standpoint of specific cost determination . 
2 . 
The single-step type We turn now to a type of fully distributed cost analysis which , unlike the `` railroad type '' , draws no distinction between cost allocation and cost apportionment : the single-step type . 
It might be called the `` public utility '' type because of the considerable use to which it has been put in gas and electric utility rate cases . 
Here no attempt is made , first to determine out-of-pocket or marginal costs and then to superimpose on these costs `` reasonably distributed '' residues of total costs . 
Instead , all of the total costs are treated as variable costs , although these costs are divided into costs that are deemed to be functions of different variables . 
Moreover , whereas in Interstate Commerce Commission parlance `` variable cost '' means a cost deemed to vary in direct proportion to changes in rate of output , in the type of analysis now under review `` variable cost '' has been used more broadly , so as to cover costs which , while a function of some one variable ( such as output of energy , or number of customers ) , are not necessarily a linear function . 
As already noted in an earlier paragraph , the more familiar cost analyses of utility enterprises or utility systems divide the total costs among a number of major classes of service , such as residential , commercial , industrial power , street lighting , etc. . 
This `` grand division '' permits many costs to be assigned in their entirety to some one class , such as street lighting , or at least to be excluded completely from some important class or classes . 
High-tension industrial power service , for example , would not be charged with any share of the maintenance costs or capital costs of the low-tension distribution lines . 
But the major portions of the total costs of a utility business are common or joint to all , or nearly all , classes of customers ; ; and these costs must somehow be apportioned among the various classes and then must somehow be reapportioned among the units of service in order to report unit costs that can serve as tentative measures of reasonable rates . 
The general basis on which these common costs are assigned to differently measured units of service will be illustrated by the following highly simplified problem of an electric-utility cost analysis . 
But before turning to this example , we must distinguish two subtypes of analysis , both of which belong to the single-step type rather than to the double-step type . 
In the first subtype , the analyst ( following the practice of railroad analysis in this particular respect ) distributes both total operating costs and total annual capital costs ( including an allowance for `` cost of capital '' or `` fair rate of return '' ) among the different classes and units of service . 
Here , an apportionment , say , of $5,000,000 of the total costs to residential service as a class would include an allowance of perhaps 6 per cent as the cost of whatever capital is deemed to have been devoted to the service of the residential consumers . 
But in the second subtype , which I take to be the one more frequently applied , only the operating expenses and not the `` cost of capital '' or `` fair return '' are apportioned directly among the various classes of service . 
To be sure , the capital investments in ( or , alternatively , the estimated `` fair values '' of ) the plant and equipment are apportioned among the different classes , as are also the gross revenues received from the sales of the different services . 
But any resulting excess of revenues received from a given class of service over the operating costs imputed to this class is reported as a `` return '' realized on the capital investment attributed to the same service . 
Thus , during any given year ( A ) if the revenues from the residential service are $7,000,000 , ( B ) if the operating expenses imputed to this class of service come to $5,000,000 , and ( C ) if the net investment in ( or value of ) the plant and equipment deemed devoted to this service amounts to $30,000,000 , the cost analyst will report that residential service , in the aggregate , has yielded a return of $2,000,000 or 6-2/3 per cent . 
Other services will show different rates of return , some probably much lower and some higher . 
There are obvious reasons of convenience for this practice of excluding `` cost of capital '' from the direct apportionment of annual costs among the different classes of service -- notably , the avoidance of the controversial question what rate of return should be held to constitute `` cost of capital '' or `` fair rate of return '' . 
But the practice is likely to be misleading , since it may seem to support a conclusion that , as long as the revenues from any class of service cover the imputed operating expenses plus some return on capital investment , however low , the rates of charge for this service are compensatory . 
Needless to say , any such inference would be quite unwarranted . 
For the reason just suggested , I shall assume the use of the first subtype of fully distributed cost apportionment in the following simplified example . 
That is to say , an allowance for `` cost of capital '' will be assumed to be included directly in the cost apportionment . 
Three-part analysis of the costs of an electric utility business In order to simplify the exposition of a typical fully apportioned cost analysis , let us assume the application of the analysis to an electric utility company supplying a single city with power generated by its own steam-generation plant . 
Let us also assume the existence of only one class or type of service , all of which is supplied at the same voltage , phase , etc. to residential , commercial , and industrial customers . 
This latter assumption will permit us to center attention on the most controversial aspect of modern public utility cost analysis -- the distinction among costs that are functions of outputs of the same service measured along different dimensions . 
Since the company under review is supplying what we are here regarding as only one kind of service , we might suppose that the problem of total cost apportionment would be very simple ; ; indeed , that it would be limited to a finding of the total annual operating and capital costs of the business , followed by a calculation of this total in terms of annual cost per kilowatt-hour of consumption . 
In fact , however , the problem is not so simple . 
For a statement of costs per kilowatt-hour would ignore the fact that many of these costs are not a function of kilowatt-hour output ( or consumption ) of energy . 
A recognition of multiple cost functions is therefore required . 
The simplest division , and the one most frequently used ( with subdivisions ) in gas and electric rate cases , is a threefold division of the total operating and capital costs into `` customer costs '' , `` energy '' or `` volumetric costs '' , and `` demand '' or `` capacity '' costs . 
If this threefold division of costs were to have its counterpart in the actual rates of charge for service , as it actually does have in some rates , there would result a three-part rate for any one class of service . 
For example , the monthly bill of a residential consumer might be the sum of a $1 customer charge , a $5 charge for 250 kilowatt-hours of energy at per kilowatt-hour , and a $2 charge for a maximum demand of 2 kilowatts during the month at the rate of $1 per kilowatt -- a total bill of $8 for that month . 
But our present interest lies in the measurement of costs of service , and only indirectly in rates that may or may not be designed to cover these costs . 
Let us therefore consider each of the three types of cost in turn , recognizing that this simplified classification is used only for illustrative purposes ; ; costs actually vary in much more complex ways . 
1 . 
The customer costs These are those operating and capital costs found to vary with number of customers regardless , or almost regardless , of power consumption . 
Included as a minimum are the costs of metering and billing along with whatever other expenses the company must incur in taking on another consumer . 
These minimum costs may come to $1 per month , more or less , for residential and small commercial customers , although they are substantially higher for large industrial users , who require more costly connections and metering devices . 
While costs on this order are sometimes separately charged for in residential and commercial rates , in the form of a mere `` service charge '' , they are more frequently wholly or partly covered by a minimum charge which entitles the consumer to a very small amount of gas or electricity with no further payment . 
But the really controversial aspect of customer-cost imputation arises because of the cost analyst's frequent practice of including , not just those costs that can be definitely earmarked as incurred for the benefit of specific customers but also a substantial fraction of the annual maintenance and capital costs of the secondary ( low-voltage ) distribution system -- a fraction equal to the estimated annual costs of a hypothetical system of minimum capacity . 
The preconditions of sociology have remained largely unexamined by the sociologist . 
Like primitive numbers in mathematics , the entire axiological framework is taken to rest upon its operational worth . 
But what is the operational worth of a sociology which mimetically reproduces the idea of physical models ? 
Is it not the task of philosophy to see what intelligible meaning can be assigned to the most sacred canons in social science ? 
It has become painfully clear that the very attempt to make the language of social research free of values by erecting mathematical and physical models , is itself a conditioned response to a world which pays a premium price for technological manipulation . 
This push to confine the study of mass behaviour to the measurements of parameters involved in differential equations has led sociology perilously close to the reduction of the word `` mass '' to mean a small group in which certain relations between all pairs of individuals in such a group can be studied . 
( cf. Rapoport , 1959 : : Ch. 11 . 
) Here I think the role of the philosopher becomes apparent . 
The simple pragmatic success of the sociology of small groups needs to be questioned . 
For if the small group notion involves the implicit claim that the phenomena of sociological investigations are of atomic or subatomic proportions , the philosopher needs to know the extent to which such entities are valid . 
The mere exploration of the unconscious ground of present-day sociology offers a rich vein of philosophical and logical investigation . 
( cf. Brodbeck , 1959 : : Ch. 12 . 
) A parallel function for philosophy is the study of the relation between perceptions experientially received and conceptions logically formed . 
Philosophy can supply adequate criteria of meaning in the selection of socially viable categories . 
This involves a sifting of the empirical and rational elements entering into each social science statement . 
Merton's functional sociology may have great practical use in the study of different cultures , yet it is perfectly clear , as Nagel ( 1957 : : 247 - 83 ) and Hempel ( 1959 : : 271 - 307 ) indicate , that the concept of function in sociology has been built up from physiological and biological models , in which the notions of teleology , i.e. , metaphysical purpose , are central . 
( cf. Chapter 9 . 
) Functionalism as a sociological credo is , therefore , not a direct consequence of observations , but rather an indirect consequence of philosophical inference and judgment . 
The purpose of this sort of philosophical study of sociology is not to tyrannize but to clarify the principles of social science . 
It is absurd to speak of philosophy as a superior enterprise to sociology , since the former is a logical , rational discipline , where sociology is essentially descriptive and empirical . 
Such a position entails the negation of philosophy in its Platonic form as something soaring above and embracing the empirical and mathematical sciences . 
But contrary to Whitehead , philosophy is not a synonym for Plato . 
The uses of philosophy as a logical clearing house are manifest to any approach that does not descend to pure sensationalism . 
However , when philosophy attempts to stand above the sciences , to dictate the conditions of empirical research , it becomes formal metaphysics ; ; shaping the contours of life to fit the needs of legends . 
The notion of philosophy as Queen Bee may fit well with authoritarian modes of political ideology , but it has been noted that the price of such an imperial notion of philosophy is the frustration and flagellation of the social sciences . 
( cf. Wetter , 1952 : : Pt. 2 , Ch. 5 ; ; Horowitz 1957b . 
) Metaphysics is no longer a direct grappling with nature as it was in antiquity . 
It has surrendered any claims of description in favor of psychological accounts of nothingness , as in Heidegger's system ( 1929 ) . 
Science is mocked for wishing to know nothing of Nothing , in a last ditch effort to save the gods at the expense of men . 
It is not positivism which has isolated metaphysics from reality by distinguishing between description and prescription . 
It is simply revealing the state to which metaphysical thinking has fallen during this century . 
Consider the traditional `` four fields '' of philosophy : logic , ethics , epistemology and esthetics . 
It is a commonplace that to the degree these special preserves of past philosophic hunting grounds establish an empirical content and suitable methodological criteria , they move away from philosophy as such . 
What is left to traditional systems of philosophy is , in effect , only the history of these fields prior to their becoming rigorous enough to abide by the canons of scientific method . 
In this situation , philosophy has survived by separating itself from metaphysics , by showing the ultimate questions to be the meaningless questions . 
The relinquishing by philosophy of pretentious claims to empirical priority gives it an ability to treat problems of meaning and truth which in the past it was unable to examine because of its missionary attitude to knowledge of more humble sorts . 
In the new situation , philosophy is able to provide the social sciences with the same guidance that mathematics offers the physical sciences , a reservoir of logical relations that can be used in framing hypotheses having explanatory and predictive value . 
Beyond this , philosophy may urge the social sciences forward by asking the type of question that falls outside the present scope of social inquiry , but within its potential domain of relevance . 
In this connection , it might be noted that the theory of games was a mathematical discovery long before its uses in political science were exploited . 
Likewise , Kant formulated the nebular hypothesis , according to which the solar system was evolved from a rotating mass of incandescent gas , nearly a half century before its scientific value was made plain by Laplace in his Systeme Du Monde . 
This does not mean that philosophy resolves the problems it generates , any more so than Riemann's geometry settled the physical status of the space-time continuum . 
But the forceful presentation of new issues for the sciences to work on is itself a monumental task . 
To those raised on Marcel's Homo Viator and Heidegger's das Nichtige , this may seem a modest role for philosophy . 
However , modesty and triviality are different qualities . 
Philosophy conceived of as servant to the sciences might appear as less dramatic than philosophy which jeers as the sciences evolve . 
The ceaseless effort to understand and measure the distance mankind has traversed since its primitive anthropological status offers a more durable sort of drama . 
By clarifying fundamental premises in the social sciences , and defining the logical problems emergent at the borderlands of each new scientific discipline , philosophy can offer the sort of distinction that can accelerate growth in human understanding . 
Philosophy can prevent the working scientist from becoming slothful and self-content by noting the assumptions and level at which a hypothesis or theory is framed . 
The dissection of scientific theory , the examination of a theory from the vantage-points of language , epistemology , and ethics , is itself a distinct contribution to knowledge , no less so because of its removal from empirical research . 
The realm of science , whatever the degree of precision in formulations , covers the range of prediction and explanation . 
( cf. Hempel and Oppenheim , 1948 : : 135 - 75 . 
) Whatever philosophy is conceived to be , its rationalist , logistic attitude to evidence should make it clear that it is something other than science . 
For some forms of philosophy , this very division between the empirical and the rational becomes a sign of the metaphysical superiority of the latter . 
Bergson and Leroy announce that `` the secret is the center of a philosophy '' and thereafter a hundred followers declare secrecy a higher verity . 
This is simply a confession of intellectual sterility spruced up to look virtuous . 
For as Merleau-Ponty indicated ( 1953 ) , it is not the secret which is important , but the removal of secrecy . 
In this , philosophy and science share a common goal . 
The hypostatization of the secret nonetheless guarantees that the division of analytical and synthetic philosophies shall not be overcome by even the most persuasive argument ; ; for this division is but an abstract representation of the social struggle between mysticism and science . 
The mystification of metaphysical systems does not imply the demise of philosophy , only the close of a philosophic age which demanded metaphysics to be rational and logical . 
The tenacity with which present metaphysical attitudes fetishize private intuition offers the strongest evidence that the gulf between scientific and delphic ways of philosophizing is built into the present conflict over the limits and purpose of science , religion and ideology . 
( cf. McGlynn : 1958 . 
) Scientific systems , and this includes even the relation of mechanist to relativist physics , are built upon , refined and corrected . 
Philosophic systems , by the very nature of their completeness , are overthrown by rival systems . 
In addition to the incompleteness of science and the completeness of metaphysics , they differ in that science is essentially descriptive , while philosophy in its inherited forms , tends to be goal-oriented , teleological and prescriptive . 
The threadbare notion that belief , unlike behaviour , is not subject to objective analysis , has placed intuitive metaphysics squarely against the sociology of knowledge , since it is precisely the job of the sociology of knowledge to treat beliefs as social facts no less viable than social behaviour . 
When dealing with the actual relation of philosophy to the sociology of knowledge , or better the role of philosophy in assisting research on the social sources of ideas , one has to become necessarily selective . 
Certain features we have touched upon : philosophy as a logical , deductive system from which a social science methodology can be built up ; ; philosophic analysis of the assumptions and presumptions of the social sciences ; ; and philosophy as a guide to possible integration of supposedly disparate sociological investigations . 
The objection will be raised that the most important role of philosophy in relation to social science has been omitted , namely the status of ultimate value questions and norms operative in the social sciences . 
Specifically , it will be asked whether the `` real '' questions people ask are not the `` ultimate '' questions that social science finds itself impotent in the face of . 
What then is the status of such questions as : is society the ground of human existence or a means to an individual goal ? 
Do societies develop according to cosmic patterns or are they subject only to the free choice of individuals ? 
Does society really exist as an entity over and above the agglomeration of men ? 
I think it must be said that , contrary to metaphysical insistence , these are questions so framed as to defy either empirical exploration or rational solutions . 
As Simmel ( 1908 ) and Dilthey ( 1922 ) indicated , questions of whether the value of life is individual or social are not questions , but assertions of faith made to appear as legitimate questions . 
Such pseudo-questions assume that answers of concrete significance can be supplied to statements involving undefined universals . 
Social theory has no more right to expect results from meaningless questions , than physics has the right to expect a theological solution to the wave-particle controversy . 
It is not that such questions are not asked . 
It is rather that introducing them into social analysis reflects not so much a search for truth as for certainty . 
An operational approach to sociology can never expect abstract certainty , since it is certainty which every new discovery in science either replaces or reshapes . 
To raise the added objection that men require certainty on psychological grounds , answers to ultimate questions having an irrational rather than scientific basis , is in a real sense to undermine the objection itself . 
For what concerns all scientific disciplines is precisely that which can be captured for the rational , i.e. , for the scientific determination of what in past ages was considered ultimate and irrational . 
A philosophy which attempts to supply ultimate answers in an ultimate way reveals its acquiescence in the shortcomings of men , an impatience with partial , tentative solutions . 
Men have always lived in a tentative world , and in suspension of ultimate judgments where and when necessary . 
Uncertainty overcoming itself is the precondition of the quest for new and more precise information about the world . 
Without such uncertainty we are left with a set of dogmas and myths . 
The functional interplay of philosophy and science should , as a minimum , guarantee a meaningful option to myth-making . 
A degree of indefiniteness is a salutary condition for the growth of science . 
But neither was the statement empirical , for goodness was not a quality like red or squeaky that could be seen or heard . 
What were they to do , then , with these awkward judgments of value ? 
To find a place for them in their theory of knowledge would require them to revise the theory radically , and yet that theory was what they regarded as their most important discovery . 
It appeared that the theory could be saved in one way only . 
If it could be shown that judgments of good and bad were not judgments at all , that they asserted nothing true or false , but merely expressed emotions like `` Hurrah '' or `` Fiddlesticks '' , then these wayward judgments would cease from troubling and weary heads could be at rest . 
This is the course the positivists took . 
They explained value judgments by explaining them away . 
Now I do not think their view will do . 
But before discussing it , I should like to record one vote of thanks to them for the clarity with which they have stated their case . 
It has been said of John Stuart Mill that he wrote so clearly that he could be found out . 
This theory has been put so clearly and precisely that it deserves criticism of the same kind , and this I will do my best to supply . 
The theory claims to show by analysis that when we say , `` That is good '' , we do not mean to assert a character of the subject of which we are thinking . 
I shall argue that we do mean to do just that . 
Let us work through an example , and the simpler and commoner the better . 
There is perhaps no value statement on which people would more universally agree than the statement that intense pain is bad . 
Let us take a set of circumstances in which I happen to be interested on the legislative side and in which I think every one of us might naturally make such a statement . 
We come upon a rabbit that has been caught in one of the brutal traps in common use . 
There are signs that it has struggled for days to escape and that in a frenzy of hunger , pain , and fear , it has all but eaten off its own leg . 
The attempt failed : the animal is now dead . 
As we think of the long and excruciating pain it must have suffered , we are very likely to say : `` It was a bad thing that the little animal should suffer so '' . 
The positivist tells us that when we say this we are only expressing our present emotion . 
I hold , on the contrary , that we mean to assert something of the pain itself , namely , that it was bad -- bad when and as it occurred . 
Consider what follows from the positivist view . 
On that view , nothing good or bad happened in the case until I came on the scene and made my remark . 
For what I express in my remark is something going on in me at the time , and that of course did not exist until I did come on the scene . 
The pain of the rabbit was not itself bad ; ; nothing evil was happening when that pain was being endured ; ; badness , in the only sense in which it is involved at all , waited for its appearance till I came and looked and felt . 
Now that this is at odds with our meaning may be shown as follows . 
Let us put to ourselves the hypothesis that we had not come on the scene and that the rabbit never was discovered . 
Are we prepared to say that in that case nothing bad occurred in the sense in which we said it did ? 
Clearly not . 
Indeed , we should say , on the contrary , that the accident of our later discovery made no difference whatever to the badness of the animal's pain , that it would have been every whit as bad whether a chance passer-by happened later to discover the body and feel repugnance or not . 
If so , then it is clear that in saying the suffering was bad we are not expressing our feelings only . 
We are saying that the pain was bad when and as it occurred and before anyone took an attitude toward it . 
The first argument is thus an ideal experiment in which we use the method of difference . 
It removes our present expression and shows that the badness we meant would not be affected by this , whereas on positivist grounds it should be . 
The second argument applies the method in the reverse way . 
It ideally removes the past event , and shows that this would render false what we mean to say , whereas on positivist grounds it should not . 
Let us suppose that the animal did not in fact fall into the trap and did not suffer at all , but that we mistakenly believe it did , and say as before that its suffering was an evil thing . 
On the positivist theory , everything I sought to express by calling it evil in the first case is still present in the second . 
In the only sense in which badness is involved at all , whatever was bad in the first case is still present in its entirety , since all that is expressed in either case is a state of feeling , and that feeling is still there . 
And our question is , is such an implication consistent with what we meant ? 
Clearly it is not . 
If anyone asked us , after we made the remark that the suffering was a bad thing , whether we should think it relevant to what we said to learn that the incident had never occurred and no pain had been suffered at all , we should say that it made all the difference in the world , that what we were asserting to be bad was precisely the suffering we thought had occurred back there , that if this had not occurred , there was nothing left to be bad , and that our assertion was in that case mistaken . 
The suggestion that in saying something evil had occurred we were after all making no mistake , because we had never meant anyhow to say anything about the past suffering , seems to me merely frivolous . 
If we did not mean to say this , why should we be so relieved on finding that the suffering had not occurred ? 
On the theory before us , such relief would be groundless , for in that suffering itself there was nothing bad at all , and hence in its nonoccurrence there would be nothing to be relieved about . 
The positivist theory would here distort our meaning beyond recognition . 
So far as I can see , there is only one way out for the positivist . 
He holds that goodness and badness lie in feelings of approval or disapproval . 
And there is a way in which he might hold that badness did in this case precede our own feeling of disapproval without belonging to the pain itself . 
The pain in itself was neutral ; ; but unfortunately the rabbit , on no grounds at all , took up toward this neutral object an attitude of disapproval and that made it for the first time , and in the only intelligible sense , bad . 
This way of escape is theoretically possible , but since it has grave difficulties of its own and has not , so far as I know , been urged by positivists , it is perhaps best not to spend time over it . 
I come now to a third argument , which again is very simple . 
When we come upon the rabbit and make our remark about its suffering being a bad thing , we presumably make it with some feeling ; ; the positivists are plainly right in saying that such remarks do usually express feeling . 
But suppose that a week later we revert to the incident in thought and make our statement again . 
And suppose that the circumstances have now so changed that the feeling with which we made the remark in the first place has faded . 
The pathetic evidence is no longer before us ; ; and we are now so fatigued in body and mind that feeling is , as we say , quite dead . 
In these circumstances , since what was expressed by the remark when first made is , on the theory before us , simply absent , the remark now expresses nothing . 
It is as empty as the word `` Hurrah '' would be when there was no enthusiasm behind it . 
And this seems to me untrue . 
When we repeat the remark that such suffering was a bad thing , the feeling with which we made it last week may be at or near the vanishing point , but if we were asked whether we meant to say what we did before , we should certainly answer Yes . 
We should say that we made our point with feeling the first time and little or no feeling the second time , but that it was the same point we were making . 
And if we can see that what we meant to say remains the same , while the feeling varies from intensity to near zero , it is not the feeling that we primarily meant to express . 
I come now to a fourth consideration . 
We all believe that toward acts or effects of a certain kind one attitude is fitting and another not ; ; but on the theory before us such a belief would not make sense . 
Broad and Ross have lately contended that this fitness is one of the main facts of ethics , and I suspect they are right . 
But that is not exactly my point . 
My point is this : whether there is such fitness or not , we all assume that there is , and if we do , we express in moral judgments more than the subjectivists say we do . 
Let me illustrate . 
In his novel The House Of The Dead , Dostoevsky tells of his experiences in a Siberian prison camp . 
Whatever the unhappy inmates of such camps are like today , Dostoevsky's companions were about as grim a lot as can be imagined . 
`` I have heard stories '' , he writes , `` of the most terrible , the most unnatural actions , of the most monstrous murders , told with the most spontaneous , childishly merry laughter '' . 
Most of us would say that in this delight at the killing of others or the causing of suffering there is something very unfitting . 
If we were asked why we thought so , we should say that these things involve great evil and are wrong , and that to take delight in what is evil or wrong is plainly unfitting . 
Now on the subjectivist view , this answer is ruled out . 
For before someone takes up an attitude toward death , suffering , or their infliction , they have no moral quality at all . 
There is therefore nothing about them to which an attitude of approval or condemnation could be fitting . 
They are in themselves neutral , and , so far as they get a moral quality , they get it only through being invested with it by the attitude of the onlooker . 
But if that is true , why is any attitude more fitting than any other ? 
Would applause , for example , be fitting if , apart from the applause , there were nothing good to applaud ? 
Would condemnation be fitting if , independently of the condemnation , there were nothing bad to condemn ? 
In such a case , any attitude would be as fitting or unfitting as any other , which means that the notion of fitness has lost all point . 
Indeed , we are forced to go much farther . 
If goodness and badness lie in attitudes only and hence are brought into being by them , those men who greeted death and misery with childishly merry laughter are taking the only sensible line . 
If there is nothing evil in these things , if they get their moral complexion only from our feeling about them , why shouldn't they be greeted with a cheer ? 
To greet them with repulsion would turn what before was neutral into something bad ; ; it would needlessly bring badness into the world ; ; and even on subjectivist assumptions that does not seem very bright . 
On the other hand , to greet them with delight would convert what before was neutral into something good ; ; it would bring goodness into the world . 
The injured German veteran was a former miner , twenty-four years old , who had been wounded by shrapnel in the back of the head . 
This resulted in damage to the occipital lobe and very probably to the left side of the cerebellum also . 
In any event , the extraordinary result of this injury was that he became `` psychically blind '' , while at the same time , apparently , the sense of touch remained essentially intact . 
Psychical blindness is a condition in which there is a total absence of visual memory-images , a condition in which , for example , one is unable to remember something just seen or to conjure up a memory-picture of the visible appearance of a well-known friend in his absence . 
This circumstance in the patient's case plus the fact that his tactual capacity remained basically in sound working order constitutes its exceptional value for the problem at hand since the evidence presented by the authors is overwhelming that , when the patient closed his eyes , he had absolutely no spatial ( that is , third-dimensional ) awareness whatsoever . 
The necessary inference , as the authors themselves interpret it , would seem to be this : `` ( ( 1 ) Spatial qualities are not among those grasped by the sense of touch , as such . 
We do not arrive at spatial images by means of the sense of touch by itself . 
( 2 ) Spatiality becomes part of the tactual sensation only by way of visual representations ; ; that is , there is , in the true sense , only a visual space '' . 
The underlying assumption , of course , is that only sight and touch enable us , in any precise and fully dependable way , to locate objects in space beyond us , the other senses being decidedly inferior , if not totally inadequate , in this regard . 
This is an assumption with which few would be disposed to quarrel . 
Therefore , if the sense of touch is functioning normally and there is a complete absence of spatial awareness in a psychically-blind person when the eyes are closed and an object is handled , the conclusion seems unavoidable that touch by itself cannot focus and take possession of the third-dimensionality of things and that actual sight or visual representations are necessary . 
The force of the authors' analysis ( if indeed it has any force ) can be felt by the reader , I believe , only after three questions have been successfully answered . 
( 1 ) What allows us to think that the patient had no third-dimensional representations when his eyes were closed ? 
( 2 ) What evidence is there that he was psychically blind ? 
( 3 ) How can we be sure that his sense of touch was not profoundly disturbed by his head injury ? 
We shall consider these in the inverse order of their presentation . 
Obviously , a satisfactory answer to the third question is imperative , if the argument is to get under way at all , for if there is any possibility of doubt whether the patient's tactual sensitivity had been impaired by the occipital lesion , any findings whatsoever in regard to the first question become completely ambiguous and fail altogether , of course , as evidence to establish the desired conclusion . 
The answer the authors give to it , therefore , is of supreme importance . 
It is as follows : `` The usual sensitivity tests showed that the specific qualities of skin-perceptiveness ( pressure , pain , temperature ) , as well as the kinesthetic sensations ( muscular feelings , feelings in the tendons and joints ) , were , as such , essentially intact , although they seemed , in comparison with normal reactions , to be somewhat diminished over the entire body . 
The supposed tactual sense of spatial location and orientation in the patient and his ability to specify the location of a member , as well as the direction and scope of a movement , passively executed ( with one of his members ) , proved to have been , on the contrary , very considerably affected '' . 
The authors insist , however , that these abnormalities in the sense of touch were due absolutely to no organic disorders in that sense faculty but rather to the injuries which the patient had sustained to the sense of sight . 
First of all , what is their evidence that the tactual apparatus was fundamentally undamaged ? 
( 1 ) When an object was placed in the patient's hand , he had no difficulty determining whether it was warm or cold , sharp or blunt , rough or smooth , flexible , soft , or hard ; ; and he could tell , simply by the feel of it , whether it was made of wood , iron , cloth , rubber , and so on . 
And he could recognize , by touch alone , articles which he had handled immediately before , even though they were altogether unfamiliar to him and could not be identified by him ; ; that is , he was unaware what kind of objects they were or what their use was . 
( 2 ) The patient attained an astonishing efficiency in a new trade . 
Because of his brain injury and the extreme damage suffered to his sight , the patient had to train himself for a new line of work , that of a portfolio-maker , an occupation requiring a great deal of precision in the making of measurements and a fairly well-developed sense of form and contour . 
It seems clear , when one takes into consideration the exceedingly defective eyesight of the patient ( we shall describe it in detail in connection with our second question , the one concerning the psychical blindness of the patient ) , that he had to rely on his sense of touch much more than the usual portfolio-maker and that consequently that faculty was most probably more sensitive to shape and size than that of a person with normal vision . 
And so the authors conclude : `` The conduct of the patient in his every-day life and in his work , even more than the foregoing facts ( mentioned above under 1 ) , leave positively no room for doubt that the sense of touch , in the ordinary sense of the word , was unaffected ; ; or , to put the same thing in physiological terms , that the performance-capacity of the tactual apparatus , from the periphery up to the tactual centers in the brain , -- that is , from one end to the other -- was unimpaired '' . 
If the argument is accepted as essentially sound up to this point , it remains for us to consider whether the patient's difficulties in orienting himself spatially and in locating objects in space with the sense of touch can be explained by his defective visual condition . 
But before we can do this , we must first find answers to our original questions 1 and 2 ; ; then we shall perhaps be in a position to provide something like a complete answer to the question at hand . 
In what ways , then , did the patient's psychical blindness manifest itself ? 
He could not see objects as unified , self-contained , and organized figures , as a person does with normal vision . 
The meaning of this , as we shall see , is that he had no fund of visual memory-images of objects as objects ; ; and , therefore , he could not recognize even long-familiar things upon seeing them again . 
Instead , he constantly became lost in parts and components of them , confused some of their details with those of neighboring objects , and so on , unless he allowed time to `` trace '' the object in question through minute movements of the head and hands and in this way to discover its contours . 
According to his own testimony , he never actually saw things as shaped but only as generally amorphous `` blots '' of color of a more or less indefinite size ; ; at their edges they slipped pretty much out of focus altogether . 
But by the tracing procedure , he could , in a strange obviously kinesthetic manner , find the unseen form ; ; could piece , as it were , the jumbled mass together into an organized whole and then recognize it as a man or a triangle or whatever it turned out to be . 
If , however , the figure to be discerned were complicated , composed of several interlocking subfigures , and so on , even the tracing process failed him , and he could not focus even relatively simple shapes among its parts . 
This meant , concretely , that the patient could not read at all without making writing-like movements of the head or body , became easily confused by `` hasher marks '' inserted between hand-written words and thus confused the mark for one of the letters , and could recognize a simple straight line or a curved one only by tracing it . 
The patient himself denied that he had any visual imagery at all ; ; and there was ample evidence of the following sort to corroborate him . 
After a conversation with another man , he was able to recount practically everything that had been said but could not describe at all what the other man looked like . 
Nor could he call up memory-pictures of close friends or relatives . 
In short , both his own declarations and his figural blindness , when he looked at objects , seem to present undeniable evidence that he had simply no visual memory at all . 
He was oblivious of the form of the object actually being viewed , precisely because he could not assign it to a visual shape , already learned and held in visual memory , as persons of normal vision do . 
He could not recognize it ; ; he was absolutely unfamiliar with it because he had no visual memory at all . 
Therefore , his only recourse was to learn the shape all over again for each new visual experience of the same individual object or type of object ; ; and this he could do only by going over its mass with the tracing procedure . 
Then he might finally recognize it , apparently by combining the visual blot , actually being seen , with tactual feelings in the head or body accompanying the tracing movements . 
This would mean , it can readily be seen , that , again , for each new visual experience , the tracing motions would have to be repeated because of the absence of visual imagery . 
As one would surmise , the procedure , however , could be repeated with the same object or with the same type of object often enough , so that the corresponding visual blots and the merest beginning of the tracing movement would provide clues as to the actual shape , which the patient then immediately could determine by a kind of inference . 
Men , trees , automobiles , houses , and so on -- objects continually confronted in everyday life -- had each its characteristic blot-appearance and became easily recognizable , at the very beginning of tracing , by an inference as to what each was . 
Dice , for example , he inferred from black dots on a white surface . 
He evidently could not actually see the corners of these objects , but their size and the dots gave them away . 
And the authors give numerous instances of calculated guessing on the patient's part to show how large a role it played in his process of readapting himself and how proficient he became at it . 
Often he seems even to have been able to guess correctly , without the tracing motions , solely on the basis of qualitative differences among the blot-like things which appeared in his visual experience . 
Perhaps the very important question -- What is , then , exactly the role of kinesthetic sensations in the patient's ability to recognize forms and shapes by means of the tracing movements when he is actually looking at things ? 
-- has now been raised in the reader's mind and in the following form . 
If the patient can perceive figure kinesthetically when he cannot perceive it visually , then , it would seem , the sense of touch has immediate contact with the spatial aspects of things in independence of visual representations , at least in regard to two dimensions , and , as we shall see , even this much spatial awareness on the part of unaided touch is denied by the authors . 
How , then , do the kinesthetic sensations function in all this ? 
The authors set about answering this fundamental question through a detailed investigation of the patient's ability , tactually , ( 1 ) to perceive figure and ( 2 ) to locate objects in space , with his eyes closed ( or turned away from the object concerned ) . 
Quite naturally , they make the investigation , first , by prohibiting the patient from making any movements at all and then , later , by repeating it and allowing the patient to move in any way he wanted to . 
When the patient was not allowed to move his body in any way at all , the following striking results occurred . 
Whenever artists , indeed , turned to actual representations or molded three-dimensional figures , which were rare down to 800 B.C. , they tended to reflect reality ( see Plate 6a , 9b ) ; ; a schematic , abstract treatment of men and animals , by intent , rose only in the late eighth century . 
To speak of this underlying view of the world is to embark upon matters of subjective judgment . 
At the least , however , one may conclude that Geometric potters sensed a logical order ; ; their principles of composition stand very close to those which appear in the Homeric epics and the hexameter line . 
Their world , again , was a still simple , traditional age which was only slowly beginning to appreciate the complexity of life . 
And perhaps an observer of the vases will not go too far in deducing that the outlook of their makers and users was basically stable and secure . 
The storms of the past had died away , and the great upheaval which was to mark the following century had not yet begun to disturb men's minds . 
Throughout the work of the later ninth century a calm , severe serenity displays itself . 
In the vases this spirit may perhaps at times bore or repel one in its internal self-satisfaction , but the best of the Geometric pins have rightly been considered among the most beautiful ever made in the Greek world . 
The ninth century was in its artistic work `` the spiritually freest and most self-sufficient between past and future '' , and the loving skill spent by its artists upon their products is a testimonial to their sense that what they were doing was important and was appreciated . 
The Aegean in 800 B.C. Geometric pottery has not yet received the thorough , detailed study which it deserves , partly because the task is a mammoth one and partly because some of its local manifestations , as at Argos , are only now coming to light . 
From even a cursory inspection of its many aspects , however , the historian can deduce several fundamental conclusions about the progress of the Aegean world down to 800 B.C. . 
The general intellectual outlook which had appeared in the eleventh century was now consolidated to a significant degree . 
Much which was in embryo in 1000 had become reasonably well developed by 800 . 
In this process the Minoan-Mycenaean inheritance had been transmuted or finally rejected ; ; the Aegean world which had existed before 1000 differed from that which rises more clearly in our vision after 800 . 
Those modern scholars who urge that we must keep in mind the fundamental continuity of Aegean development from earliest times -- granted occasional irruptions of peoples and ideas from outside -- are correct ; ; but all too many observers have been misled by this fact into minimizing the degree of change which took place in the early first millennium . 
The focus of novelty in this world now lay in the south-eastern districts of the Greek mainland , and by 800 virtually the entire Aegean , always excepting its northern shores , had accepted the Geometric style of pottery . 
While Protogeometric vases usually turn up , especially outside Greece proper , together with as many or more examples of local stamp , these `` non-Greek '' patterns had mostly vanished by the later ninth century . 
In their place came local variations within the common style -- tentative , as it were , in Protogeometric products but truly distinct and sharply defined as the Geometric spirit developed . 
Attica , though important , was not the only teacher of this age . 
One can take a vase of about 800 B.C. and , without any knowledge of its place of origin , venture to assign it to a specific area ; ; imitation and borrowing of motifs now become ascertainable . 
The potters of the Aegean islands thus stood apart from those of the mainland , and in Greece itself Argive , Corinthian , Attic , Boeotian , and other Geometric sequences have each their own hallmarks . 
These local variations were to become ever sharper in the next century and a half . 
The same conclusions can be drawn from the other physical evidence of the Dark ages , from linguistic distribution , and from the survivals of early social , political , and religious patterns into later ages . 
By 800 B.C. the Aegean was an area of common tongue and of common culture . 
On these pillars rested that solid basis for life and thought which was soon to be manifested in the remarkably unlimited ken of the Iliad . 
Everywhere within the common pattern , however , one finds local diversity ; ; Greek history and culture were enduringly fertilized , and plagued , by the interplay of these conjoined yet opposed factors . 
Further we cannot go , for the Dark ages deserve their name . 
Many aspects of civilization were not yet sufficiently crystallized to find expression , nor could the simple economic and social foundations of this world support a lofty structure . 
The epic poems , the consolidation of the Greek pantheon , the rise of firm political units , the self-awareness which could permit painted and sculptured representations of men -- all these had to await the progress of following decades . 
What we have seen in this chapter , we have seen only dimly , and yet the results , however general , are worth the search . 
These are the centuries in which the inhabitants of the Aegean world settled firmly into their minds and into their institutions the foundations of the Hellenic outlook , independent of outside forces . 
To interpret , indeed , the era from 1000 to 800 as a period mainly of consolidation may be a necessary but unfortunate defect born of our lack of detailed information ; ; if we could see more deeply , we probably would find many side issues and wrong turnings which came to an end within the period . 
The historian can only point out those lines which were major enough to find reflection in our limited evidence , and must hope that future excavations will enrich our understanding . 
Throughout the Dark ages , it is clear , the Greek world had been developing slowly but consistently . 
The pace could now be accelerated , for the inhabitants of the Aegean stood on firm ground . 
Chapter 5 the early eighth century the landscape of Greek history broadens widely , and rather abruptly , in the eighth century B.C. , the age of Homer's `` rosy-fingered Dawn '' . 
The first slanting rays of the new day cannot yet dispel all the dark shadows which lie across the Aegean world ; ; but our evidence grows considerably in variety and shows more unmistakably some of the lines of change . 
For this period , as for earlier centuries , pottery remains the most secure source ; ; the ceramic material of the age is more abundant , more diversified , and more indicative of the hopes and fears of its makers , who begin to show scenes of human life and death . 
Figurines and simple chapels presage the emergence of sculpture and architecture in Greece ; ; objects in gold , ivory , and bronze grow more numerous . 
Since writing was practiced in the Aegean before the end of the century , we may hope that the details of tradition will now be occasionally useful . 
Though it is not easy to apply the evidence of the Iliad to any specific era , this marvelous product of the epic tradition had certainly taken definitive shape by 750 . 
The Dipylon Geometric pottery of Athens and the Iliad are amazing manifestations of the inherent potentialities of Greek civilization ; ; but both were among the last products of a phase which was ending . 
Greek civilization was swirling toward its great revolution , in which the developed qualities of the Hellenic outlook were suddenly to break forth . 
The revolution was well under way before 700 B.C. , and premonitory signs go back virtually across the century . 
The era , however , is Janus-faced . 
While many tokens point forward , the main achievements stand as a culmination of the simple patterns of the Dark ages . 
The dominant pottery of the century was Geometric ; ; political organization revolved about the basileis ; ; trade was just beginning to expand ; ; the gods who protected the Greek countryside were only now putting on their sharply anthropomorphic dress . 
The modern student , who knows what was to come next , is likely to place first the factors of change which are visible in the eighth century . 
Not all men of the period would have accepted this emphasis . 
Many potters clung to the past the more determinedly as they were confronted with radically new ideas ; ; the poet of the Iliad deliberately archaized . 
Although it is not possible to sunder old and new in this era , I shall consider in the present chapter primarily the first decades of the eighth century and shall interpret them as an apogee of the first stage of Greek civilization . 
On this principle of division I must postpone the evolution of sculpture , architecture , society , and politics ; ; for the developments in these areas make sense only if they are connected to the age of revolution itself . 
The growing contacts between Aegean and Orient are also a phase which should be linked primarily to the remarkable broadening of Hellenic culture after 750 . 
We shall not be able entirely to pass over these connections to the East as we consider Ripe Geometric pottery , the epic and the myth , and the religious evolution of early Greece ; ; the important point , however , is that these magnificent achievements , unlike those of later decades , were only incidentally influenced by Oriental models . 
The antecedents of Dipylon vases and of the Iliad lie in the Aegean past . 
Dipylon pottery the pottery of the first half of the eighth century is commonly called Ripe Geometric . 
The severe yet harmonious vases of the previous fifty years , the Strong Geometric style of the late ninth century , display as firm a mastery of the principles underlying Geometric pottery ; ; but artists now were ready to refine and elaborate their inheritance . 
The vases which resulted had different shapes , far more complex decoration , and a larger sense of style . 
Beyond the aesthetic and technical aspects of this expansion we must consider the change in pottery style on broader lines . 
In earlier centuries men had had enough to do in rebuilding a fundamental sense of order after chaos . 
They had had to work on very simple foundations and had not dared to give rein to impulses . 
The potters , in particular , had virtually eschewed freehand drawing , elaborate motifs , and the curving lines of nature , while yet expressing a belief that there was order in the universe . 
In their vases were embodied the basic aesthetic and logical characteristics of Greek civilization , at first hesitantly in Protogeometric work , and then more confidently in the initial stages of the Geometric style . 
By 800 social and cultural security had been achieved , at least on a simple plane ; ; it was time to take bigger steps , to venture on experiments . 
Ripe Geometric potters continued to employ the old syntax of ornaments and shapes and made use of the well-defined though limited range of motifs which they had inherited . 
In these respects the vases of the early eighth century represent a culmination of earlier lines of progress . 
To the ancestral lore , however , new materials were added . 
Painters left less and less of a vase in a plain dark color ; ; instead they divided the surface into many bands or covered it by all-over patterns into which freehand drawing began to creep . 
Wavy lines , feather-like patterns , rosettes of indefinitely floral nature , birds either singly or in stylized rows , animals in solemn frieze bands ( see Plates 11 - 12 ) -- all these turned up in the more developed fabrics as preliminary signs that the potters were broadening their gaze . 
The rows of animals and birds , in particular , suggest awareness of Oriental animal friezes , transmitted perhaps via Syrian silver bowls and textiles , but the specific forms of these rows on local vases and metal products are nonetheless Greek . 
Though the spread of this type of decoration in the Aegean has not yet been precisely determined , it seems to appear first in the Cyclades , which were among the leading exporters of pottery throughout the century . 
As the material at the command of the potters grew and the volume of their production increased , the local variations within a common style became more evident . 
Plate 12 illustrates four examples , which are Ripe or Late Geometric work of common spirit but of different schools . 
Cook had discovered a beef in his possession a few days earlier and , when he could not show the hide , arrested him . 
Thinking the evidence insufficient to get a conviction , he later released him . 
Even while suffering the trip to his home , Cook swore to Moore and Lane that he would kill the Indian . 
Three weeks later , following his recovery , armed with a writ issued by the Catskill justice on affidavits prepared by the district attorney , Cook and Russell rode to arrest Martinez . 
Arriving at daybreak , they found Julio in his corral and demanded that he surrender . 
Instead , he whirled and ran to his house for a gun , forcing them to kill him , Cook reported . 
Both Cook's and Russell's lives were threatened by the Mexicans following the killing , but the company officers felt that in the end , it would serve to quiet them despite their immediate emotion . 
General manager Pels even suggested that it might be wise to keep the Mexicans in suspense rather than accept their offers to sell out and move away , and try to have a few punished . 
On February 17 , Russell and Cook were sent to the Pena Flor community on the Vermejo to see about renting out ranches the company had purchased . 
While talking with Julian M. Beall , Francisco Archuleta and Juan Marcus appeared , both heavily armed , and after watching the house for a while , rode away . 
It was nearly sundown before they finished the business with Beall and began riding down the stream . 
They had traveled only a short distance when they spotted five Mexicans riding along a horse-trail across the stream just ahead of them . 
Suspecting an ambush , the two deputies decided to ride up a side canyon taking a short cut into Catskill . 
After spending two nights ( Wednesday and Thursday ) in Catskill , the deputies again headed for the Vermejo to finish their business . 
They stayed with a rancher Friday night and by eleven o'clock Saturday morning passed the old Garnett Lee ranch . 
Half a mile below at the mouth of Salyer's Canyon was an old ranch that the company had purchased from A. J. Armstrong , occupied by a Mexican , his wife , and an old trapper . 
There were three houses in Salyer's Canyon just at the foot of a low bluff , the road winding along the top , entering above , and then passing down in front of the houses , thence to the Vermejo . 
To the west of this road was another low bluff , forty or fifty feet high , covered with scrub oak and other brush . 
As they were riding along this winding road on the bench of land between the two bluffs , a volley of rifle fire suddenly crashed around the two officers . 
Not a bullet touched Cook who was nearer the ambush , but one hit Russell in the leg and another broke his arm , passing on through his body . 
With the first reports , Russell's horse wheeled to the right and ran towards the buildings while Cook , followed by a hail of bullets , raced towards the arroyo of Salyer's Canyon immediately in front of him , just reaching it as his horse fell . 
Grabbing his Winchester from its sheath , Cook prepared to fight from behind the arroyo bank . 
Bullets were so thick , throwing sand in his face , that he found it difficult to return the fire . 
Noticing Russell's horse in front of the long log building , he assumed his friend had slipped inside and would be able to put up a good fight , so he began working his way down the ditch to join him . 
At a very shallow place , two Mexicans rushed into the open for a shot . 
Dropping to one knee , Cook felled one , and the other struggled off with his comrade , sending no further fire in his direction . 
Just before leaving the arroyo where he was partially concealed , he did hear shots down at the house . 
Russell had reached the house as Cook surmised , dismounted , but just as the old trapper opened the door to receive him , he fell into the trapper's arms -- dead . 
A bullet fired by one of the Mexicans hiding in a little chicken house had passed through his head , tearing a hole two-inches square on the outgoing side . 
Finding him dead , Cook caught Russell's horse and rode to the cattle foreman's house to report the incident and request bloodhounds to trail the assassins . 
Before daylight Sunday morning , a posse of twenty-three men under the leadership of Deputy Sheriff Frank MacPherson of Catskill followed the trail to the house of Francisco Chaves , where 100 to 150 Mexicans had gathered . 
MacPherson boldly approached the fortified adobe house and demanded entrance . 
The men inside informed him that they had some wounded men among them but he would not be allowed to see them even though he offered medical aid . 
The officer demanded the names of the injured men ; ; the Mexicans not only refused to give them , but told the possemen if they wanted a fight they could have it . 
Since the strength of the Mexicans had been underrated , too small a posse had been collected , and since the deputy had not been provided with search warrants , MacPherson and his men decided it was much wiser to withdraw . 
The posse's retreat encouraged the Mexicans to be overbearing and impudent . 
During the following week , six tons of hay belonging to one rancher were burned ; ; some buildings , farm tools , two horses , plows , and hay owned by Bonito Lavato , a friendly interpreter for the company , and Pedro Chavez' hay were stolen or destroyed ; ; and a store was broken into and robbed . 
District Attorney M. W. Mills warned that he would vigorously prosecute persons caught committing these crimes or carrying arms -- he just didn't catch anyone . 
Increasing threats on his life finally convinced Cook that he should leave New Mexico . 
His friends advised that it would be only a question of time until either the Mexicans killed him by ambuscade or he would be compelled to kill them in self-defense , perpetuating the troubles . 
By early summer , he wrote from Laramie that he was suffering from the wound inflicted in the ambush and was in a bad way financially , so Pels sent him a draft for $100 , warning that it was still not wise for him to return . 
Pels also sent a check for $100 to Russell's widow and had a white marble monument erected on his grave . 
Cattle stealing and killing , again serious during the spring of 1891 , placed the land grant company officers in a perplexing position . 
They were reluctant to appoint sheriffs to protect the property , thus running the risk of creating disturbances such as that on the Vermejo , and yet the cowboys protested that they got no salary for arresting cattle thieves and running the risk of being shot . 
And the law virtually ignored the situation . 
The judge became ill just as the Colfax District Court convened , no substitute was brought in , no criminal cases heard , only 5 out of 122 cases docketed were tried , and court adjourned sine die after sitting a few days instead of the usual three weeks . 
Pels complained : `` Litigants and witnesses were put to the expense and inconvenience of going long distances to transact business ; ; public money spent ; ; justice delayed ; ; nothing accomplished , and the whole distribution of justice in this county seems to be an absolute farce '' . 
Word reached the company that the man behind these depredations was Manuel Gonzales , a man with many followers , including a number who were kept in line through fear of him . 
Although wanted by the sheriff for killing an old man named Asher Jones , the warrant for his arrest had never been served . 
On May 19 , a deputy sheriff's posse of eight men left Maxwell City and rode thirty-five miles up the Vermejo where they were joined by Juan Jose Martinez . 
By 3:00 A.M. they reached his house and found it vacant . 
When they were refused entrance to his brother's house nearby , they smashed down the door , broke the window , and threw lighted clothes wet with kerosene into the room . 
Still there was no Gonzales and the family would say nothing . 
About 300 yards up the creek was a cluster of Mexican houses containing six rooms in the form of a square . 
While prowling around these buildings , two of the posse recognized the voice of Gonzales speaking to the people inside . 
He was promised that no harm would befall him if he would come out , but he cursed and replied that he would shoot any man coming near the door . 
The posse then asked that he send out the women and children as the building would be fired or torn down over his head if necessary to take him dead or alive . 
Again he refused . 
In deadly earnest , the besiegers methodically stripped away portions of the roof and tossed lighted rags inside , only to have most stamped out by the women as soon as they hit the floor . 
When it became obvious that he could stay inside no longer , taking a thousand to one chance Gonzales rushed outside , square against the muzzle of a Winchester . 
Shot near the heart , he turned to one side and plunged for a door to another room several feet away , three bullets following him . 
As he pushed open the door he fell on his face , one of his comrades pulling him inside . 
Not realizing the seriousness of the wound , the besiegers warned that if he did not surrender the house would be burned down around him . 
Receiving no answer , they set the fire . 
When the house was about half consumed , his comrade ran to the door and threw up his hands , declaring repeatedly that he did not know the whereabouts of Manuel . 
Finding it true that he was not inside , the deputies returned to the first house and tore holes through the side and the roof until they could see a body on the bed covered by a blanket . 
Several slugs fired into the bed jerked aside the blanket to reveal an apparently lifeless hand . 
Shot six or eight times the body was draped with Russell's pistol , belt , and cartridges . 
There was no extra horse so it was left to his comrades who , though numbering in the fifties , had stood around on the hillside nearby without firing a shot during the entire attack . 
Early the next morning , a Mexican telephoned Pels that Celso Chavez , one of the posse members , was surrounded by ten Mexicans at his father's home on the upper Vermejo . 
The sheriff and District Attorney Mills hastily swore out a number of warrants against men who had been riding about armed , according to signed statements by Chavez and Dr. I. P. George , and ordered Deputy Barney Clark of Raton to rescue the posseman . 
Traveling all night , Clark and twelve men arrived at about seven o'clock May 22 . 
Occasionally they heard gun-shot signals and a number of horsemen were sighted on the hills , disappearing at the posse's approach . 
A Mexican justice of the peace had issue a writ against Chavez for taking part in the `` murder '' of Manuel Gonzales so he and his father were anxious to be taken out of danger . 
The men helped them gather their belongings and escorted them to Raton along with three other families desiring to leave . 
The ten or more dangerous parties singled out for prosecution were still at large , and Pels realized that if these men entrenched themselves in their adobe houses , defending themselves through loopholes , it would be most difficult to capture them . 
Thus he wired J. P. Lower and Sons of Denver : `` Have you any percussion hand grenades for throwing in a house or across a well loaded with balls or shrapnel shot ? 
If not , how long to order and what is the price '' ? 
He wisely decided that it would be foolish to create a disturbance during the coming roundup , particularly since the Mexicans were on their guard . 
His problem then became one of restraining the American fighters who wanted to clean out the Vermejo by force immediately . 
The plant was located west of the Battenkill and south of the location of the former electric light plant . 
The Manchester Depot Sewer Company issued 214 shares of stock at $10 each for construction of a sewer in that locality , and assessments were made for its maintenance . 
It has given considerable trouble at times and empties right into the Battenkill . 
Fire District No. 1 discussed its possible purchase in 1945 , but considered it an unwise investment . 
The sewer on Bonnet Street was constructed when there were only a few houses on the street . 
As new homes were built they were connected so that all residences south of School Street are served by it . 
B. J. Connell is the present treasurer and manager . 
The 1946 town meeting voted to have the Selectmen appoint a committee to investigate and report on the feasibility of some system of sewage disposal and a disposal plant to serve Manchester Center , Depot , and Way's Lane . 
The committee submitted a report signed by Louis Martin and Leon Wiley with a map published in the 1946 town report . 
The layout of the sewer lines was designed by Henry W. Taylor , who was the engineer for the Manchester Village disposal plant . 
No figures were submitted with the report and no action was taken on it by the town . 
The 1958 town meeting directed town authorities to seek federal and state funds with which to conduct a preliminary survey of a proposed sewage plant with its attendant facilities . 
The final step was a vote for a $230,000 bond issue for the construction of a sewage system by the 1959 town meeting , later confirmed by a two-thirds vote at a special town meeting June 21 , 1960 . 
There the matter stands with the prospect that soon Manchester may be removed from the roster of towns contributing raw sewage to its main streams . 
Telephone and telegraph Manchester's unusual interest in telegraphy has often been attributed to the fact that the Rev. J. D. Wickham , headmaster of Burr and Burton Seminary , was a personal friend and correspondent of the inventor , Samuel F. B. Morse . 
At any rate , Manchester did not lag far behind the first commercial system which was set up in 1844 between Baltimore and Washington . 
In 1846 Matthew B. Goodwin , jeweler and watchmaker , became the town's first telegrapher in a dwelling he built for himself and his business `` two doors north of the Equinox House '' or `` one door north of the Bank , Manchester , Vermont '' . 
Goodwin was telegrapher for the `` American Telegraph Company '' and the `` Troy and Canada Junction Telegraph Company '' . 
Shares of capital stock at $15 each in the latter company were payable at the Bank of Manchester or at various other Vermont banks . 
A message of less than fifteen words to Bennington cost twenty-five cents . 
By 1871 L. C. Orvis , manager of the `` Western Union Telegraph Company '' , expressed willingness to send emergency telegrams on Sundays from his Village drugstore . 
Orvis even needed to hire an assistant , Clark J. Wait . 
The Manchester Journal commented editorially on the surprising amount of local telegraphic business . 
In the fall of 1878 , the `` Popular Telegraph Line '' was established between Manchester and Factory Point by the owners , Paul W. Orvis , Henry Gray , J. N. Hard , and Clark J. Wait . 
The line soon lived up to its name , as local messages of moderate length could be sent for a dime and the company was quickly able to declare very liberal dividends on its capital stock . 
In 1879 the same Clark Wait , with H. H. Holley of South Dorset , formed the `` American Telegraph Line '' , extending from Manchester Depot via Factory Point and South Dorset to Dorset . 
Besides being most convenient , the line `` soon proved a good investment for the owners '' . 
Telegraphers at the Depot at this time were Aaron C. Burr and Mark Manley of `` Burr and Manley '' , dealers in lumber and dry goods . 
Early equipment was very flimsy ; ; the smallest gusts of wind toppled poles , making communications impossible . 
But companies continued to spring up . 
By 1883 the `` Battenkill Telegraph Company '' was in existence and Alvin Pettibone was its president . 
Operating in 1887 was the `` Valley Telegraph Line '' , officers of which were E. C. Orvis , president ; ; H. K. Fowler , vice-president and secretary ; ; J. N. Hard , treasurer ; ; F. H. Walker , superintendent ; ; H. S. Walker , assistant superintendent . 
Two companies now had headquarters with Clark J. Wait , who by then had his own drugstore at Factory Point -- the `` Northern Union Telegraph Company '' and the `` Western Union '' . 
Operators were Arthur Koop and Norman Taylor . 
Still existing on a `` Northern Union '' telegraph form is a typical peremptory message from Peru grocer J. J. Hapgood to Burton and Graves' store in Manchester -- `` Get and send by stage four pounds best Porterhouse or serloin stake , for Mrs. Hapgood send six sweet oranges '' . 
About 1888 J. E. McNaughton of Barnumville and E. G. Bacon became proprietors of the `` Green Mountain Telegraph Company '' , connecting all offices on the Western Union line and extending over the mountain from Barnumville to Peru , Londonderry , South Londonderry , Lowell Lake , Windham , North Windham , Grafton , Cambridgeport , Saxton's River , and Bellows Falls . 
From 1896 until 1910 John H. Whipple was manager of Western Union at the Center in the drugstore he purchased from Clark Wait . 
The Village office of Western Union with George Towsley as manager and telegrapher continued in Hard's drugstore until 1905 . 
During the summers , Towsley often needed the assistance of a company operator . 
These were the years when people flocked to Manchester not only to play golf , which had come into vogue , but also to witness the Ekwanok Country Club tournaments . 
New Yorkers were kept informed of scores by reporters who telegraphed fifteen to twenty thousand words daily to the metropolitan newspapers . 
This boosted local telegraph business and Manchester basked in all the free advertising . 
In 1914 when the town was chosen for the U. S. Amateur Golf tournament , a representative hurried here from the Boston manager's office . 
In his wake came the District Traffic Supervisor and the cream of the telegraphic profession , ten of Boston's best , chosen for their long experience and thorough knowledge of golf . 
During that tournament alone , some 250,000 words winged their way out of Manchester . 
The old Morse system was replaced locally by the Simplex modern automatic method in 1929 , when Ellamae Heckman ( Wilcox ) was manager of the Western Union office . 
During summers , business was so brisk that Mrs. Wilcox had two assistants and a messenger . 
She was succeeded by Clarence Goyette . 
Since that time the telegraph office has shifted in location from the railroad station at the Depot and shops at the Center back to the town clerk's office and drugstore at the Village . 
After being located for some years in the Village at the Equinox Pharmacy under the supervision of Mrs. Harry Mercier , it is presently located in the Hill and Dale Shop , Manchester Center . 
The first known telephone line in Manchester was established in July 1883 between Burr and Manley's store at Manchester Depot and the Kent and Root Marble Company in South Dorset . 
This was extended the following year to include the railroad station agent's office and Thayer's Hotel at Factory Point . 
In November 1887 a line connecting several dwelling houses in Dorset was extended to Manchester Depot . 
Telephone wires from Louis Dufresne's house in East Manchester to the Dufresne lumber job near Bourn Pond were up about 1895 . 
Eber L. Taylor of Manchester Depot recorded the setting of phone poles in East Dorset and Barnumville in his diary for 1906 . 
These must have been for local calls strictly , as in May 1900 the `` only long distance telephone '' in town was transferred from C. B. Carleton's to Young's shoe store . 
A small single switchboard was installed in the Village over Woodcock's hardware store ( later E. H. Hemenway's ) . 
George Woodcock was manager and troubleshooter ; ; Elizabeth Way was the first operator ; ; and a night operator was also employed . 
Anyone fortunate enough to have one of those early phones advertised the fact along with the telephone number in the Manchester Journal . 
In 1918 the New England Telephone Company began erecting a building to house its operations on the corner of U. S. Rte. 7 and what is now Memorial Avenue at Manchester Center . 
Service running through Barnumville and to Bennington County towns east of the mountains was in the hands of the `` Gleason Telephone Company '' in 1925 , but major supervision of telephone lines in Manchester was with the New England Telephone and Telegraph Company , which eventually gained all control . 
More aerial and underground equipment was installed as well as office improvements to take care of the expanding business . 
In 1931 Mrs. F. H. Briggs , agent and chief operator , who was to retire in 1946 with thirty years' service , led agency offices in sales for the year with $2,490 . 
William Hitchcock , who retired in 1938 , was a veteran of thirty-four years' local service . 
Another veteran telephone operator was Edith Fleming Blackmer , who had been in the office forty years at the time of her death in 1960 . 
In 1932 Dorset received its own exchange , which made business easier for the Manchester office , but it was not until February 1953 that area service was extended to include Manchester and Dorset . 
This eliminated toll calls between the two towns . 
Within a month , calls were up seventy per cent . 
Electric power electricity plays such an important part in community life today that it is difficult to envision a time when current was not available for daily use . 
Yet one has to go back only some sixty years . 
The first mention of an electric plant in Manchester seems to be one installed in Reuben Colvin's and Houghton's gristmill on the West Branch in Factory Point . 
No records are available as to the date or extent of installation , but it may have been in 1896 . 
On June 14 , 1900 the Manchester Journal reported that an electrical engineer was installing an electric light plant for Edward S. Isham at `` Ormsby Hill '' . 
This was working by the end of August and giving satisfactory service . 
In November 1900 surveying was done under John Marsden on the east mountains to ascertain if it would be possible to get sufficient water and fall to operate an electric power plant . 
Nothing came of it , perhaps due to lack of opportunity for water storage . 
The next step was construction by the Manchester Light and Power Company of a plant on the west bank of the Battenkill south of Union Street bridge . 
This was nearly completed May 23 , 1901 with a promise of lights by June 10 , but the first light did not go on until September 28 . 
It was at the end of the sidewalk in front of the Dellwood Cemetery cottage . 
The first directors of the Manchester Light and Power Company were John Marsden , M. L. Manley , William F. Orvis , George Smith , and John Blackmer . 
The officers were John Marsden , president ; ; John C. Blackmer , vice-president ; ; George Smith , treasurer ; ; and William F. Orvis , secretary . 
Marsden was manager of the company for ten years and manager of its successor company , the Colonial Light and Power Company , for one year . 
At about the time the Marsden enterprise was getting under way , the Vail Light and Lumber Company started construction of a chair stock factory on the site of the present Bennington Co-operative Creamery , intending to use its surplus power for generating electricity . 
Manchester then had two competing power companies until 1904 , when the Manchester Light and Power Company purchased the transmission system of the Vail Company . 
This was fortunate , as the Vail plant burned in 1905 . 
The Colonial Light and Power Company was succeeded by the Vermont Hydro-Electric Corporation , which in turn was absorbed by the Central Vermont Public Service Corporation . 
The latter now furnishes the area with electricity distributed from a modern sub-station at Manchester Depot which was put into operation February 19 , 1930 and was improved in January 1942 by the installation of larger transformers . 
For a time following the abandonment of the local plant , electric current for Manchester was brought in from the south with an emergency tie-in with the Vermont Marble Company system to the north . 
Some who have written on Utopia have treated it as `` a learned diversion of a learned world '' , `` a phantasy with which More amused himself '' , `` a holiday work , a spontaneous overflow of intellectual high spirits , a revel of debate , paradox , comedy and invention '' . 
With respect to this view , two points are worth making . 
First , it appears to be based on the fact that on its title page Utopia is described as `` festivus '' , `` gay '' . 
It overlooks the other fact that it is described as `` Nec minus salutaris quam festivus '' , `` no less salutary than gay '' . 
It also overlooks the fact that in a rational lexicon , and quite clearly in More's lexicon , the opposite of serious is not gay but frivolous , and the opposite of gay is not serious but solemn . 
More believed that a man could be both serious and gay . 
That a writer who is gay cannot be serious is a common professional illusion , sedulously fostered by all too many academics who mistakenly believe that their frivolous efforts should be taken seriously because they are expressed with that dreary solemnity which is the only mode of expression their authors are capable of . 
Secondly , to find a learned diversion and a pleasing joke in More's account of the stupid brutalities of early sixteenth century wars , of the anguish of the poor and dispossessed , of the insolence and cruelty of the rich and powerful requires a callousness toward suffering and sin that would be surprising in a moral imbecile and most surprising in More himself . 
Indeed , it is even surprising in the Canon of Christ Church and Regius Professor of Ecclesiastical History , who fathered this most peculiar view , and in the brilliant Professor of Medieval and Renaissance English at Cambridge , who inherited it and is now its most eminent proponent . 
But to return to the main line of our inquiry , it is doubtful that Utopia is still widely read because More was medieval or even because he was a martyr -- indeed , it is likely that these days many who read Utopia with interest do not even know that its author was a martyr . 
Utopia is still widely read because in a sense More stood on the margin of modernity . 
And if he did stand on the margins of modernity , it was not in dying a martyr for such unity as Papal supremacy might be able to force on Western Christendom . 
It was not even in writing Latin epigrams , sometimes bawdy ones , or in translating Lucian from Greek into Latin or in defending the study of Greek against the attack of conservative academics , or in attacking the conservative theologians who opposed Erasmus's philological study of the New Testament . 
Similar literary exercises were the common doings of a Christian humanist of the first two decades of the sixteenth century . 
Had More's writings been wholly limited to such exercises , they would be almost as dimly remembered as those of a dozen or so other authors living in his time , whose works tenuously survive in the minds of the few hundred scholars who each decade in pursuit of their very specialized occasions read those works . 
More stands on the margins of modernity for one reason alone -- because he wrote Utopia . 
And the evidence that he does , indeed , stand there derives quite simply from the vigorous interest with which rather casual readers have responded to that book for the past century or so . 
Only one other contemporary of More's evokes so immediate and direct a response , and only one other contemporary work -- Niccolo Machiavelli and The Prince . 
Can we discover what it is in Utopia that has evoked this response ? 
Remember that in seeking the modern in Utopia we do not deny the existence of the medieval and the Renaissance there ; ; we do not even need to commit ourselves to assessing on the same inconceivable scale the relative importance of the medieval , the Renaissance , and the modern . 
The medieval was the most important to Chambers because he sought to place Thomas More , the author of Utopia , in some intelligible relation with St. Thomas More , the martyr . 
To others whose concern it is to penetrate the significance of Christian Humanism , the Renaissance elements are of primary concern . 
But here we have a distinctly modern preoccupation ; ; we want to know why that book has kept on selling the way it has ; ; we want to know what is perennially new about Utopia . 
What is new about it ? 
To that question the answer is simple ; ; it can be made in two words , Utopian communism . 
But it is an answer which opens the door wide to an onrush of objections and denials . 
Surely there is nothing new about communism . 
We find it in Plato's Republic , and in Utopia More acknowledges his debt to that book . 
We find it in that `` common way of life pleasing to Christ and still in use among the truest societies of Christians '' , that is , the better monasteries which made it easier to convert the Utopians to Christianity . 
We find it in the later Stoic conception of man's natural condition which included the community of all possessions . 
This conception was taken up by the early Church Fathers and by canon lawyers and theologians in the Middle Ages ; ; and More was far too well read not to have come across it in one or several of the forms thus given it . 
But although the idea of communism is very old even in More's day and did not spring full-clad from his imagination in 1515 , it is not communism as such that we are concerned with . 
We are concerned not with the genus communism nor with other species of the genus : Platonic , Stoic , early Christian , monastic , canonist or theological communism ; ; we are concerned with Utopian communism -- that is , simply communism as it appears in the imaginary commonwealth of Utopia , as More conceived it . 
Perhaps one way to sharpen our sense of the modernity of Utopian communism is to contrast it with the principal earlier types of communistic theory . 
We will achieve a more vivid sense of what it is by realizing what it is not . 
In Plato's Republic communism is -- to speak anachronistically -- a communism of Janissaries . 
Its function is to separate from the base ruled mass , among whom private ownership prevails , the governing warrior elite . 
Moreover , it is too readily forgotten that in the Republic what gave the initial impetus to Plato's excursus into the construction of an imaginary commonwealth with its ruling-class communism of goods , wives , and children , was his quest for a canon for the proper ordering of the individual human psyche ; ; and it is to this problem that the Republic ultimately returns . 
In More's Utopia communism is not a means of separating out a warrior elite from the lumpish mass . 
Utopian communism applies to all Utopians . 
And in the economy of the book it is not peripheral but central . 
The concern of Utopia is with the optimo reipublicae statu , the best ordering of a civil society ; ; and it is again and again made clear that Utopian communism provides the institutional array indispensible to that best ordering . 
To derive Utopian communism from the Jerusalem Christian community of the apostolic age or from its medieval successors-in-spirit , the monastic communities , is with an appropriate shift of adjectives , misleading in the same way as to derive it from Plato's Republic : in the Republic we have to do with an elite of physical and intellectual athletes , in the apostolic and monastic communities with an elite of spiritual and religious athletes . 
The apostolic community was literally an elite : chosen by Christ himself . 
And the monastic communities were supposed to be made up of volunteers selected only after a novitiate which would test their religious aptitude for monastic rigors , their spiritual athleticism . 
Finally , the conception of the natural community of all possessions which originated with the Stoics was firmly fixed in a tradition by More's time , although it was not accepted by all the theologian-philosophers of the Middle Ages . 
In that tradition communism lay a safe distance back in the age of innocence before the Fall of Man . 
It did not serve to contrast the existing order of society with a possible alternative order , because the age of innocence was not a possible alternative once man had sinned . 
The actual function of patristic communism was adequately set forth by St. Gregory almost a millenium before More wrote Utopia . 
`` The soil is common to all men . 
When we give the necessities of life to the poor , we restore to them what is already theirs . 
We should think of it more as an act of justice than compassion '' . 
Because community not severalty of property is the law of nature no man can assert an absolutely unalterable right to what is his . 
Indeed , of all that is his every man is by nature and reason and therefore by conscience obligated to regard himself as a custodian . 
He is a trustee for the common good , however feeble the safeguards which the positive or municipal law of property provides against his misuse of that share of the common fund , wisely or unwisely , entrusted to his keeping . 
In contrast to this Stoic-patristic view , Utopia implies that the nature of man is such that to rely on individual conscience to supply the deficiencies of municipal law is to embark on the bottomless sea of human sinfulness in a sieve . 
The Utopians brace conscience with legal sanctions . 
In a properly ordered society the massive force of public law performs the function which in natural law theory ineptly is left altogether to a small voice so often still . 
In all the respects just indicated Utopian communism differs from previous conceptions in which community of possessions and living plays a role . 
Neither from one of these conceptions nor from a combination of them can it be deduced . 
We do not deny originality to the Agamemnon because Aeschylus found the tales of the house of Atreus among the folk lore of the Greeks . 
In a like sense whatever bits or shreds of previous conceptions one may find in it , Utopian communism remains , as an integral whole , original -- a new thing . 
It is not merely a new thing ; ; it is one of the very few new things in Utopia ; ; most of the rest is medieval or humanist or part of an old tradition of social criticism . 
But to say that at a moment in history something is new is not necessarily to say that it is modern ; ; and for this statement the best evidence comes within the five years following the publication of Utopia , when Martin Luther elaborates a new perception of the nature of the Divine's encounter with man . 
New , indeed , is Luther's perception , but not modern , as anyone knows who has ever tried to make intelligible to modern students what Luther was getting at . 
Although Utopian communism is both new in 1516 and also modern , it is not modern communism or even modern socialism , as they exist or have ever existed in theory or in practice . 
Consider the features of Utopian communism : generous public provision for the infirm ; ; democratic and secret elections of all officers including priests , meals taken publicly in common refectories ; ; a common habit or uniform prescribed for all citizens ; ; even houses changed once a decade ; ; six hours of manual labor a day for all but a handful of magistrates and scholars , and careful measures to prevent anyone from shirking ; ; no private property , no money ; ; no sort of pricing at all for any goods or services , and therefore no market in the economic sense of the term . 
Whatever the merits of its intent , Utopian communism is far too naive , far too crude , to suit any modern socialist or communist . 
It is not the details of Utopian communism that make Utopia modern , it is the spirit , the attitude of mind that informs those details . 
What that spirit and attitude were we can best understand if we see more precisely how it contrasts with the communist tradition with the longest continuous history , the one which reached Christianity by the way of Stoicism through the Church Fathers of Late Antiquity . 
During the Dorr trial the Democratic press condemned the proceedings and heralded Dorr as a martyr to the principles of the Declaration of Independence . 
During the Brown trial , however , the state's most powerful Democratic newspaper , the Providence Daily Post , stated that Brown was a murderer , a man of blood , and that he and his associates , with the assistance of Republicans and Abolitionists , had plotted not only the liberation of the slaves but also the overthrow of state and federal governments . 
The Providence Daily Journal answered the Daily Post by stating that the raid of John Brown was characteristic of Democratic acts of violence and that `` He was acting in direct opposition to the Republican Party , who proclaim as one of their cardinal principles that they do not interfere with slavery in the states '' . 
The two major newspapers in Providence continued , throughout the crisis , to accuse each other of misrepresenting the facts and attempting to falsify history . 
While the Daily Post continued to accuse Republicans and the Daily Journal continued to accuse Democrats , the Woonsocket Patriot complained that the Virginia authorities showed indecent and cowardly haste to condemn Brown and his men . 
Editor Foss stated , `` Of their guilt there can be no doubt but they are entitled to sufficient time to prepare for trial , and a fair trial '' . 
The Providence Daily Post thought that there were probably good reasons for the haste in which the trial was being conducted and that the only thing gained by a delay would be calmer feelings . 
The Providence Daily Journal stated that although the guilt of Brown was evident , the South must guarantee him a fair trial to preserve domestic peace . 
On October 31 , 1859 , John Brown was found guilty of treason against the state of Virginia , inciting slave rebellion , and murder . 
For these crimes he was sentenced to be hanged in public on Friday , December 2 , 1859 . 
Upon receiving the news , Northern writers , editors , and clergymen heaped accusations of murder on the Southern states , particularly Virginia . 
Although Rhode Islanders were preparing for the state elections , they watched John Brown's trial with extreme interest . 
On Wednesday morning , November 2 , 1859 , the Providence Daily Journal stated that although Brown justly deserved the extreme penalty , no man , however criminal , ought to suffer the penalty without a fair trial . 
The editor's main criticism of the trial was the haste with which it was conducted . 
The readers of the Providence Daily Post , however , learned that it was generally conceded that `` Old Brown '' had a fair trial . 
Concerning the sentence the editor asked , `` What else can Virginia do than to hang the men who have defied her laws , organized treason , and butchered her citizens '' . 
In the eastern section of the state the newspapers' reaction to Brown's trial and sentence were basically identical . 
J. Wheaton Smith , editor of the Warren Telegraph stated that `` the ends of justice must be satisfied , a solitary example must be set , in order that all those misnamed philantropists , who , actuated by a blind zeal , dare to instigate riot , treason , and murder , may heed it and shape their future course accordingly '' . 
The editor of the Newport Advertiser could discover no evidence of extenuating circumstances in the Brown trial which would warrant making an exception to the infliction of capital punishment . 
In direct contrast to the other Rhode Island editors , Samuel S. Foss of the Woonsocket Patriot outwardly condemned the trial as being completely unfair . 
Concerning the sentence , Foss wrote , `` If it be possible that mercy shall override vengeance and that John Brown's sentence shall be commuted to imprisonment , it would be well -- well for the country and for Virginia '' . 
Despite the excitement being caused by the trial and sentence of John Brown , Rhode Islanders turned their attention to the state elections . 
The state had elected Republican candidates in the past two years . 
There was no doubt as to the control the Republican party exercised throughout the state . 
If it failed on occasion to elect its candidates for general state offices by majorities , the failure was due to a lingering remnant of the Know-Nothing party , which called itself the American Republican party . 
The American Republicans and the Republicans both nominated Lieutenant-Governor Turner for governor . 
Elisha R. Potter was the Democratic candidate . 
The results of the election of 1859 found Republican candidates not only winning the offices of governor and lieutenant-governor but also obtaining the two Congressional offices from the eastern and western sections of the state . 
During the month of November hardly a day passed when there was not some mention of John Brown in the Rhode Island newspapers . 
On November 7 , 1859 , the Providence Daily Journal reprinted a letter sent to John Brown from `` E. B. '' , a Quaker lady in Newport . 
In reference to Brown's raid she wrote , `` though we are non-resistants and religiously believe it better to reform by moral and not by carnal weapons , we know thee was anemated by the most generous and philanthropic motives '' . 
`` E. B. '' compared John Brown to Moses in that they were both acting to deliver millions from oppression . 
In contrast to `` E. B. '' , most Rhode Islanders hardly thought of John Brown as being another Moses . 
Most attempts to develop any sympathy for Brown and his actions found an unresponsive audience in Rhode Island . 
On Wednesday evening , November 23 , 1859 , in Warren , Rev. Mark Trafton of New Bedford , gave a `` Mission of Sympathy '' lecture in which he favorably viewed the Harper's Ferry insurrection . 
The Warren Telegraph stated that many of Rev. Trafton's remarks were inappropriate and savored strongly of radicalism and fanaticism . 
In its account of the Trafton lecture , the Providence Daily Post said that the remarks of Rev. Trafton made the people indignant . 
No sympathy or admiration for Brown could be found in the Providence Daily Post , for the editor claimed that there were a score of men in the state prison who were a thousand times more deserving of sympathy . 
The Providence Daily Journal , however , stated that Brown's courage , bravery , and heroism `` in a good cause would make a man a martyr ; ; it gives something of dignity even to a bad one '' . 
The Woonsocket Patriot admitted that John Brown might deserve punishment or imprisonment `` but he should no more be hung than Henry A. Wise or James Buchanan '' . 
The Newport Mercury exhibited more concern over the possibility of the abolitionists making a martyr of Brown than it did over the development of sympathy for him . 
In her letter to John Brown , `` E. B. '' , the Quakeress from Newport , had suggested that the American people owed more honor to John Brown for seeking to free the slaves than they did to George Washington . 
During the latter days of November to the day of Brown's execution , it seems that most Rhode Islanders did not concur in `` E. B.'s '' suggestion . 
On November 22 , 1859 , the Providence Daily Journal stated that although Brown's `` pluck '' and honest fanaticism must be admired , any honor paid to Brown would only induce other fanatics to imitate his actions . 
A week later the Daily Journal had discovered the initial plans of some Providence citizens to hold a meeting honoring John Brown on the day of his execution . 
The editor of the Daily Journal warned , `` that if such a demonstration be made , it will not find support or countenance from any of the men whose names are recognized as having a right to speak for Providence '' . 
The Providence Daily Post's editor wrote that he could not believe that a meeting honoring Brown was to be held in Providence . 
He further called upon the people of Providence to rebuke the meeting and avoid disgrace . 
On December 2 , 1859 , John Brown was hanged at Charles Town , Virginia . 
Extraordinary precautions were taken so that no stranger be allowed in the city and no citizen within the enclosure surrounding the scaffold . 
In many Northern towns and cities meetings were held and church bells were tolled . 
Such was not the case in Rhode Island . 
The only public demonstration in honor of John Brown was held at Pratt's Hall in Providence , on the day of his execution . 
Despite the opposition of the city newspapers , the Pratt Hall meeting `` brought together a very respectable audience , composed in part of those who had been distinguished for years for their radical views upon the subject of slavery , of many of our colored citizens , and of those who were attracted to the place by the novelty of such a gathering '' . 
Seated on the platform were Amos C. Barstow , ex-mayor of Providence and a wealthy Republican stove manufacturer ; ; Thomas Davis , an uncompromising Garrisonian ; ; the Reverend Augustus Woodbury , a Unitarian minister ; ; the Reverend George T. Day , a Free-Will Baptist ; ; Daniel W. Vaughan , and William H. H. Clements . 
The latter two were appointed secretaries . 
The first speaker was Amos C. Barstow who had been unanimously chosen president of the meeting . 
He spoke of his desire to promote the abolition of slavery by peaceable means and he compared John Brown of Harper's Ferry to the John Brown of Rhode Island's colonial period . 
Barstow concluded that as Rhode Island's John Brown became a canonized hero , if not a saint , so would it be with John Brown of Harper's Ferry . 
The next speaker was George T. Day . 
Although admitting Brown's guilt on legal grounds , Day said that , `` Brown is no common criminal ; ; his deed was not below , but above the law '' . 
Following Day was Woodbury who spoke of his disapproval of Brown's attempt at servile insurrection , his admiration of Brown's character , and his opposition to slavery . 
Woodbury's remarks were applauded by a portion of the audience several times and once there was hissing . 
The fourth and last speaker was Thomas Davis . 
By this time large numbers of the audience had left the hall . 
Davis commenced his remarks by an allusion to the general feeling of opposition which the meeting had encountered from many of the citizens and all the newspapers of the city . 
He said that the propriety or impropriety of such a gathering was a question that was to be settled by every man in accordance with the convictions of private judgments . 
In the remainder of his speech Davis spoke of his admiration for Brown and warned those who took part in the meeting that they `` are liable to the charge that they are supporting traitors and upholding men whom the laws have condemned '' . 
He recalled that in Rhode Island a party opposed to the state's condemnation of a man ( Thomas W. Dorr ) proclaimed the state's action as a violation of the law of the land and the principles of human liberty . 
At the close of Davis' speech the following preamble and resolutions were read by the president , and on the question of their adoption passed unanimously : Whereas , John Brown has cheerfully risked his life in endeavoring to deliver those who are denied all rights and is this day doomed to suffer death for his efforts in behalf of those who have no helper : Therefore , Resolved that , while we most decidedly disapprove the methods he adopted to accomplish his objects , yet in his willingness to die in aid of the great cause of human freedom , we still recognize the qualities of a noble nature and the exercise of a spirit which true men have always admired and which history never fails to honor . 
Resolved that his wrongs and bereavements in Kansas , occasioned by the violence and brutality of those who were intent on the propagation of slavery in that territory , call for a charitable judgment upon his recent efforts in Virginia to undermine the despotism from which he had suffered , and commend his family to the special sympathy and aid of all who pity suffering and reverence justice . 
Resolved that the anti-slavery sentiment is becoming ripe for resolute action . 
Resolved , that we find in this fearful tragedy at Harper's Ferry a reason for more earnest effort to remove the evil of slavery from the whole land as speedily as possible . 
On the morning following the Pratt Hall meeting the editor of the Providence Daily Journal wrote that although the meeting was milder and less extreme than those held in other areas for similar purposes , it could have been avoided completely . 
Rather than being deceived , the eye is puzzled ; ; instead of seeing objects in space , it sees nothing more than -- a picture . 
Through 1911 and 1912 , as the Cubist facet-plane's tendency to adhere to the literal surface became harder and harder to deny , the task of keeping the surface at arm's length fell all the more to eye-undeceiving contrivances . 
To reinforce , and sometimes to replace , the simulated typography , Braque and Picasso began to mix sand and other foreign substances with their paint ; ; the granular texture thus created likewise called attention to the reality of the surface and was effective over much larger areas . 
In certain other pictures , however , Braque began to paint areas in exact simulation of wood graining or marbleizing . 
These areas , by virtue of their abrupt density of pattern , stated the literal surface with such new and superior force that the resulting contrast drove the simulated printing into a depth from which it could be rescued -- and set to shuttling again -- only by conventional perspective ; ; that is , by being placed in such relation to the forms depicted within the illusion that these forms left no room for the typography except near the surface . 
The accumulation of such devices , however , soon had the effect of telescoping , even while separating , surface and depth . 
The process of flattening seemed inexorable , and it became necessary to emphasize the surface still further in order to prevent it from fusing with the illusion . 
It was for this reason , and no other that I can see , that in September 1912 , Braque took the radical and revolutionary step of pasting actual pieces of imitation-woodgrain wallpaper to a drawing on paper , instead of trying to simulate its texture in paint . 
Picasso says that he himself had already made his first collage toward the end of 1911 , when he glued a piece of imitation-caning oilcloth to a painting on canvas . 
It is true that his first collage looks more Analytical than Braque's , which would confirm the date he assigns it . 
But it is also true that Braque was the consistent pioneer in the use of simulated textures as well as of typography ; ; and moreover , he had already begun to broaden and simplify the facet-planes of Analytical Cubism as far back as the end of 1910 . 
When we examine what each master says was his first collage we see that much the same thing happens in each . 
( It makes no real difference that Braque's collage is on paper and eked out in charcoal , while Picasso's is on canvas and eked out in oil . 
) By its greater corporeal presence and its greater extraneousness , the affixed paper or cloth serves for a seeming moment to push everything else into a more vivid idea of depth than the simulated printing or simulated textures had ever done . 
But here again , the surface-declaring device both overshoots and falls short of its aim . 
For the illusion of depth created by the contrast between the affixed material and everything else gives way immediately to an illusion of forms in bas-relief , which gives way in turn , and with equal immediacy , to an illusion that seems to contain both -- or neither . 
Because of the size of the areas it covers , the pasted paper establishes undepicted flatness bodily , as more than an indication or sign . 
Literal flatness now tends to assert itself as the main event of the picture , and the device boomerangs : the illusion of depth is rendered even more precarious than before . 
Instead of isolating the literal flatness by specifying and circumscribing it , the pasted paper or cloth releases and spreads it , and the artist seems to have nothing left but this undepicted flatness with which to finish as well as start his picture . 
The actual surface becomes both ground and background , and it turns out -- suddenly and paradoxically -- that the only place left for a three-dimensional illusion is in front of , upon , the surface . 
In their very first collages , Braque and Picasso draw or paint over and on the affixed paper or cloth , so that certain of the principal features of their subjects as depicted seem to thrust out into real , bas-relief space -- or to be about to do so -- while the rest of the subject remains imbedded in , or flat upon , the surface . 
And the surface is driven back , in its very surfaceness , only by this contrast . 
In the upper center of Braque's first collage , Fruit Dish ( in Douglas Cooper's collection ) , a bunch of grapes is rendered with such conventionally vivid sculptural effect as to lift it practically off the picture plane . 
The trompe-l'oeil illusion here is no longer enclosed between parallel flatnesses , but seems to thrust through the surface of the drawing paper and establish depth on top of it . 
Yet the violent immediacy of the wallpaper strips pasted to the paper , and the only lesser immediacy of block capitals that simulate window lettering , manage somehow to push the grape cluster back into place on the picture plane so that it does not `` jump '' . 
At the same time , the wallpaper strips themselves seem to be pushed into depth by the lines and patches of shading charcoaled upon them , and by their placing in relation to the block capitals ; ; and these capitals seem in turn to be pushed back by their placing , and by contrast with the corporeality of the woodgraining . 
Thus every part and plane of the picture keeps changing place in relative depth with every other part and plane ; ; and it is as if the only stable relation left among the different parts of the picture is the ambivalent and ambiguous one that each has with the surface . 
And the same thing , more or less , can be said of the contents of Picasso's first collage . 
In later collages of both masters , a variety of extraneous materials are used , sometimes in the same work , and almost always in conjunction with every other eye-deceiving and eye-undeceiving device they can think of . 
The area adjacent to one edge of a piece of affixed material -- or simply of a painted-in form -- will be shaded to pry that edge away from the surface , while something will be drawn , painted or even pasted over another part of the same shape to drive it back into depth . 
Planes defined as parallel to the surface also cut through it into real space , and a depth is suggested optically which is greater than that established pictorially . 
All this expands the oscillation between surface and depth so as to encompass fictive space in front of the surface as well as behind it . 
Flatness may now monopolize everything , but it is a flatness become so ambiguous and expanded as to turn into illusion itself -- at least an optical if not , properly speaking , a pictorial illusion . 
Depicted , Cubist flatness is now almost completely assimilated to the literal , undepicted kind , but at the same time it reacts upon and largely transforms the undepicted kind -- and it does so , moreover , without depriving the latter of its literalness ; ; rather , it underpins and reinforces that literalness , re-creates it . 
Out of this re-created literalness , the Cubist subject reemerged . 
For it had turned out , by a further paradox of Cubism , that the means to an illusion of depth and plasticity had now become widely divergent from the means of representation or imaging . 
In the Analytical phase of their Cubism , Braque and Picasso had not only had to minimize three-dimensionality simply in order to preserve it ; ; they had also had to generalize it -- to the point , finally , where the illusion of depth and relief became abstracted from specific three-dimensional entities and was rendered largely as the illusion of depth and relief as such : as a disembodied attribute and expropriated property detached from everything not itself . 
In order to be saved , plasticity had had to be isolated ; ; and as the aspect of the subject was transposed into those clusters of more or less interchangeable and contour-obliterating facet-planes by which plasticity was isolated under the Cubist method , the subject itself became largely unrecognizable . 
Cubism , in its 1911-1912 phase ( which the French , with justice , call `` hermetic '' ) was on the verge of abstract art . 
It was then that Picasso and Braque were confronted with a unique dilemma : they had to choose between illusion and representation . 
If they opted for illusion , it could only be illusion per se -- an illusion of depth , and of relief , so general and abstracted as to exclude the representation of individual objects . 
If , on the other hand , they opted for representation , it had to be representation per se -- representation as image pure and simple , without connotations ( at least , without more than schematic ones ) of the three-dimensional space in which the objects represented originally existed . 
It was the collage that made the terms of this dilemma clear : the representational could be restored and preserved only on the flat and literal surface now that illusion and representation had become , for the first time , mutually exclusive alternatives . 
In the end , Picasso and Braque plumped for the representational , and it would seem they did so deliberately . 
( This provides whatever real justification there is for the talk about `` reality '' . 
) But the inner , formal logic of Cubism , as it worked itself out through the collage , had just as much to do with shaping their decision . 
When the smaller facet-planes of Analytical Cubism were placed upon or juxtaposed with the large , dense shapes formed by the affixed materials of the collage , they had to coalesce -- become `` synthesized '' -- into larger planar shapes themselves simply in order to maintain the integrity of the picture plane . 
Left in their previous atom-like smallness , they would have cut away too abruptly into depth ; ; and the broad , opaque shapes of pasted paper would have been isolated in such a way as to make them jump out of plane . 
Large planes juxtaposed with other large planes tend to assert themselves as independent shapes , and to the extent that they are flat , they also assert themselves as silhouettes ; ; and independent silhouettes are apt to coincide with the recognizable contours of the subject from which a picture starts ( if it does start from a subject ) . 
It was because of this chain-reaction as much as for any other reason -- that is , because of the growing independence of the planar unit in collage as a shape -- that the identity of depicted objects , or at least parts of them , re-emerged in Braque's and Picasso's papiers colles and continued to remain more conspicuous there -- but only as flattened silhouettes -- than in any of their paintings done wholly in oil before the end of 1913 . 
Analytical Cubism came to an end in the collage , but not conclusively ; ; nor did Synthetic Cubism fully begin there . 
Only when the collage had been exhaustively translated into oil , and transformed by this translation , did Cubism become an affair of positive color and flat , interlocking silhouettes whose legibility and placement created allusions to , if not the illusion of , unmistakable three-dimensional identities . 
Synthetic Cubism began with Picasso alone , late in 1913 or early in 1914 ; ; this was the point at which he finally took the lead in Cubist innovation away from Braque , never again to relinquish it . 
But even before that , Picasso had glimpsed and entered , for a moment , a certain revolutionary path in which no one had preceded him . 
It was as though , in that instant , he had felt the flatness of collage as too constricting and had suddenly tried to escape all the way back -- or forward -- to literal three-dimensionality . 
This he did by using utterly literal means to carry the forward push of the collage ( and of Cubism in general ) literally into the literal space in front of the picture plane . 
Some time in 1912 , Picasso cut out and folded a piece of paper in the shape of a guitar ; ; to this he glued and fitted other pieces of paper and four taut strings , thus creating a sequence of flat surfaces in real and sculptural space to which there clung only the vestige of a picture plane . 
The affixed elements of collage were extruded , as it were , and cut off from the literal pictorial surface to form a bas-relief . 
Los Angeles in 1957 finally bowed to the skyscraper . 
) And without high density in the core , rapid-transit systems cannot be maintained economically , let alone built from scratch at today's prices . 
However , the building of freeways and garages cannot continue forever . 
The new interchange among the four Los Angeles freeways , including the grade-constructed accesses , occupies by itself no less than eighty acres of downtown land , one-eighth of a square mile , an area about the size of Rockefeller Center in New York . 
It is hard to believe that this mass of intertwined concrete constitutes what the law calls `` the highest and best use '' of centrally located urban land . 
As it affects the city's fiscal situation , such an interchange is ruinous ; ; it removes forever from the tax rolls property which should be taxed to pay for the city services . 
Subways improved land values without taking away land ; ; freeways boost valuation less ( because the garages they require are not prime buildings by a long shot ) , and reduce the acreage that can be taxed . 
Downtown Los Angeles is already two-thirds freeway , interchange , street , parking lot and garage -- one of those preposterous `` if '' statistics has already come to pass . 
The freeway with narrowly spaced interchanges concentrates and mitigates the access problem , but it also acts inevitably as an artificial , isolating boundary . 
City planners do not always use this boundary as effectively as they might . 
Less ambitious freeway plans may be more successful -- especially when the roadways and interchanges are raised , allowing for cross access at many points and providing parking areas below the ramp . 
Meanwhile , the automobile and its friend the truck have cost the central city some of its industrial dominance . 
In ever greater numbers , factories are locating in the suburbs or in `` industrial parks '' removed from the city's political jurisdiction . 
The appeal of the suburb is particularly strong for heavy industry , which must move bulky objects along a lengthy assembly line and wants enough land area to do the entire job on one floor . 
To light industry , the economies of being on one floor are much slighter , but efficiency engineers usually believe in them , and manufacturers looking for ways to cut costs cannot be prevented from turning to efficiency engineers . 
This movement of industry away from the central cities is not so catastrophically new as some prophets seem to believe . 
It is merely the latest example of the leapfrog growth which formed the pattern of virtually all American cities . 
The big factories which are relatively near the centers of our cities -- the rubber factories in Akron , Chrysler's Detroit plants , U.S. Steel's Pittsburgh works -- often began on these sites at a time when that was the edge of the city , yet close to transport ( river ) , storage ( piers ) and power ( river ) . 
The `` leapfrog '' was a phenomenon of the railroad and the steam turbine , and the time when the belts of residence surrounding the old factory area were not yet blighted . 
The truck and the car gave the manufacturer a new degree of freedom in selecting his plant site . 
Until internal combustion became cheap , he had to be near a railroad siding and a trolley line or an existing large community of lower-class homes . 
The railroad siding is still important -- it is usually , though not always , true that long-haul shipment by rail is cheaper than trucking . 
But anybody who promises a substantial volume of business can get a railroad to run a short spur to his plant these days , and many businesses can live without the railroad . 
And there are now many millions of workers for whom the factory with the big parking lot , which can be reached by driving across or against the usual pattern of rush hour traffic and grille-route bus lines , is actually more convenient than the walk-to factory . 
Willow Run , General Electric's enormous installations at Louisville and Syracuse , the Pentagon , Boeing in Seattle , Douglas and Lockheed in Los Angeles , the new automobile assembly plants everywhere -- none of these is substantially served by any sort of conventional mass rapid transit . 
They are all suburban plants , relying on the roads to keep them supplied with workers . 
And wherever the new thruways go up their banks are lined by neat glass and metal and colored brick light industry . 
The drive along Massachusetts' Route 128 , the by-pass which makes an arc about twenty miles from downtown Boston , may be a vision of the future . 
The future could be worse . 
The plants along Route 128 are mostly well designed and nicely set against the New England rocks and trees . 
They can even be rather grand , like Edward Land's monument to the astonishing success of Polaroid . 
But they deny the values of the city -- the crowded , competitive , tolerant city , the `` melting pot '' which gave off so many of the most admirable American qualities . 
They are segregated businesses , combining again on one site the factory and the office , drawing their work force from segregated communities . 
It is interesting to note how many of the plants on Massachusetts' Route 128 draw most of their income either from the government in non-competitive cost-plus arrangements , or from the exploitation of patents which grant at least a partial monopoly . 
While the factories were always the center of the labor market , they were often on the city's periphery . 
In spreading the factories even farther , the automobile may not have changed to any great extent the growth pattern of the cities . 
Even the loss of hotel business to the outskirt's motel has been relatively painless ; ; the hotel-motel demarcation is becoming harder to find every year . 
What hurts most is the damage the automobile has done to central-city retailing , especially in those cities where public transit is feeble . 
Some retailing , of course , always spreads with the population -- grocery stores , drugstores , local haberdasheries and dress shops , candy stores and the like . 
But whenever a major purchase was contemplated forty years ago -- a new bedroom set or a winter coat , an Easter bonnet , a bicycle for Junior -- the family set off for the downtown department store , where the selection would be greatest . 
Department stores congregated in the `` one hundred per cent location '' , where all the transit lines converged . 
These stores are still there , but the volume of the `` downtown store '' has been on a relative decline , while in many cities the suburban `` branch '' sells more and more dry goods . 
If the retailer and hotelman's downtown unit sales have been decreasing , however , his dollar volume continues to rise , and it is dollars which you put in the bank . 
In most discussions of this phenomenon , the figures are substantially inflated . 
No suburban shopping-center branch -- not even Hudson's vast Northland outside Detroit -- does anything like the unit volume of business or carries anything like the variety of merchandise to be found in the home store . 
Telephone orders distort the picture : the suburbanite naturally calls a local rather than a central-city number if both are listed in an advertisement , especially if the local call eliminates city sales tax . 
The suburban branch is thereby credited with a sale which would have been made even if its glass doors had never opened . 
Accounting procedures which continue to charge a disproportionate overhead and warehouse expense to the main store make the branches seem more profitable than they are . 
In many cases that statement -- `` We break even on our downtown operation and make money on our branches '' -- would be turned around if the cost analysis were recalculated on terms less prejudicial to the old store . 
Fear of the competition -- always a great motivating force in the American economy -- makes retailers who do not have suburban operations exaggerate both the volume and the profitability of their rival's shiny new branches . 
The fact seems to be that very many large branch stores are uneconomical , that the choice of location in the suburbs is as important as it was downtown , and that even highly suburbanized cities will support only so many big branches . 
Moreover , the cost of operations is always high in any new store , as the conservative bankers who act as controllers for retail giants are beginning to discover . 
When all has been said , however , the big branch store remains a major break with history in the development of American retailing . 
Just as the suburban factory may be more convenient than the downtown plant to the worker with a car , the trip to the shopping center may seem far easier than to the downtown department store , though both are the same distance from home . 
Indeed , there are some cities where the suburban shopping pulls customers who are geographically much nearer to downtown . 
Raymond Vernon reports that residents of East St. Louis have been driving across the Mississippi , through the heart of downtown St. Louis and out to the western suburbs for major shopping , simply because parking is easier at the big branches than it is in the heart of town . 
To the extent that the problem is merely parking , an aggressive downtown management , like that of Lazarus Brothers in Columbus , Ohio , can fight back successfully by building a garage on the lot next door . 
If the distant patron of the suburban branch has been frightened away from downtown by traffic problems , however , the city store can only pressure the politicians to do something about the highways or await the completion of the federal highway program . 
And if the affection for the suburban branch reflects a desire to shop with `` nice people '' , rather than with the indiscriminate urban mass which supports the downtown department store , the central location may be in serious trouble . 
Today , according to land economist Homer Hoyt , shopping centers and their associated parking lots cover some 46,000 acres of land , which is almost exactly the total land area in all the nation's Central Business Districts put together . 
The downtown store continues to offer the great inducement of variety , both within its gates and across the street , where other department stores are immediately convenient for the shopper who wants to see what is available before making up her mind . 
If anything may be predicted in the quicksilver world of retailing , it seems likely that the suburban branch will come to dominate children's clothing ( taking the kid downtown is too much of a production ) , household gadgetry and the discount business in big-ticket items . 
Department stores were built on dry goods , especially ladies' fashions , and in this area , in the long run , the suburban branches will be hard put to compete against downtown . 
If this analysis is correct , the suburban branches will turn out to be what management's cost accountants refuse to acknowledge , marginal operations rather than major factors . 
Historically in America the appeal of cities has been their color and life , the variety of experience they offered . 
`` How ya gonna keep 'em down on the farm '' ? 
Was a question that had to be asked long before they saw Paree . 
Though Americans usually lived in groups segregated by national origin or religious belief , they liked to work and shop in the noise and vitality of downtown . 
Only a radical change in the nature of the population in the central city would be likely to destroy this preference -- and we must now turn our attention to the question of whether such a change , gloomily foreseen by so many urban diagnosticians , is actually upon us . 
4 . 
Suburbs and Negroes In their book , American Skyline , Christopher Tunnard and Henry Hope Reed argue that Franklin Roosevelt's New Deal was what made the modern suburb a possibility -- a fine ironical argument , when you consider how suburbanites tend to vote . 
The first superhighways -- New York's Henry Hudson and Chicago's Lake Shore , San Francisco's Bay Bridge and its approaches , a good slice of the Pennsylvania Turnpike -- were built as part of the federal works program which was going to cure the depression . 
At the same time , Roosevelt's Federal Housing Administration , coupled with Henry Morgenthau's cheap-money policy , permitted ordinary lower-middle-class families to build their own homes . 
Bankers who had been reluctant to lend without better security than the house itself got that security from the U. S. government ; ; householders who had been unable to pick up the burden of short-term high-interest mortgages found they could borrow for twenty-five years at 4 per cent , under government aegis . 
Before losing itself in the sands of the 19th Century , the grand stream of Italian Renaissance architectural decoration made a last appearance in the Brumidi frescos of the Capitol Rotunda in Washington . 
The artistic generation after Brumidi was trained in the Paris of that time to a more meticulous standard of execution , and tended to overlook greatness of conception where faults and weakness were easy to find . 
But it is a great conception . 
The open ceiling , with allegorical and classical figures thrown in masses against the sky : the closed frieze , formally divided into historical scenes and tightly tied to the stone walls , belong in their large ordering to the line of Correggio and his Baroque followers . 
The descent may be remote , but this is surely the only full-scale example of that vigorous inheritance in the United States . 
Constantino Brumidi designed the decorative scheme as a whole , in collaboration with the architect Charles U. Walter , at the time when plans were being made to replace the wooden dome of Bullfinch with the present much larger iron structure . 
After many years and many interruptions he was able to finish the canopy fresco , and slightly less than half the frieze , beginning with the Liberty group opposite the East door , and ending with William Penn , all but one leg , when a tragic accident ended his career . 
He left at his death sketches , drawn to scale , for the rest of the circle . 
These were carried out not too faithfully by Filippo Costaggini , who began by supplying the missing member to the founder of Pennsylvania and noting in pencil , in Italian , that he `` began at this point '' . 
When Costaggini had used up all the sketches thirty-six feet of empty frieze were left over . 
A blank undecorated void , plastered in roughcast , disfigured the wall of the Rotunda until 1951 . 
Then , advised by the Architect of the Capitol , the Joint Committee for the Library , traditionally responsible for the works of art in the building , ordered the space cleared and painted in fresco , to show `` the Peace after the Civil War '' , `` the Spanish-American War '' , and `` the Birth of Aviation '' , to match as nearly as feasible Brumidi's technique and composition . 
Later the cleaning and restoration were ordered , first of the older part of the frieze , finally of the canopy . 
What follows is therefore a description of three separate undertakings , the new frescoing of the gap , and the successive essays in conservation , with some discussion of problems that arose in connection with each . 
For the use of students and future restorers , a full , day-by-day record was kept of all three undertakings , complete technical reports on what we found and what we did . 
These may be consulted in the office of the Architect of the Capitol , or the Library of Congress . 
The first preliminary was inspecting the unfinished length of frieze , a jumble of roughcast and finish coats , all in bad condition . 
It was decided to strip the whole area down to the bricks , and to replace the rough coats up to one inch thickness to agree with the older artists' preparation , with a mortar , one part slaked lime , three parts sand , to be put on in two layers . 
Cartoons were drawn full size , after sketches had been made to satisfy all the authorities . 
There was some difficulty here . 
One had to manage the given subjects , three diverse recent events , so as to make them part of a classical frieze , -- that is , a pattern of large figures filling the space , with not much else , against a blank background . 
Moreover , all three representations must be squeezed comfortably into little more than the length Brumidi allowed for each one of his . 
When it was all arranged to fit , and not to interrupt the lengthwise flow of movement in the frieze , the cartoons were tried in place . 
The scaffolding , a confusion of heavy beams hanging from the gallery above , was strong and safe , but obscured visibility . 
Nothing could be seen from the floor , but by moving around the gallery one could get glimpses ; ; and we were able to decide on some amplification of scale . 
To be sure of matching color as well as form , pieces of cartoon were traced on the roughcast , and large samples painted in fresco , then left two months to dry out to their final key . 
Later it was gratifying to note that they had set so solidly as to be hard to remove when the time came . 
The scaffold was the length of the space to be painted . 
What bits of Brumidi and Costaggini could be reached at either end seemed in good order , though the roughish sandy surface was thick with dust . 
Washed , they came out surprisingly clear and bright . 
It could be seen that both artists used a very thick final coat of plaster , one half inch , and that both followed the traditional Italian fresco technique as described by Cennino Cennini in the 14th Century , and current in Italy to this day . 
That is , they used opaque color throughout , getting solid highlights with active lime white . 
Painting `` a secco '' is much in evidence . 
A brown hatching reinforces and broadens shadows , and much of the background is solidly covered with a dark coat . 
This brown is sometimes so rich in medium as to appear to be oil paint . 
In our own practice , to have the last `` intonaco '' plaster coat thick enough to match , and at the same time to avoid fine cracks in drying , we found that it had to be put on in two layers , letting the first set awhile before applying the second . 
The mortar was three parts sand to two of lime . 
Some of the lime that is always on hand in the Capitol basement for plaster repairs was slaked several months for us ; ; but to make it stiffer , of a really putty-like consistency to avoid cracking , we added a little hydrated lime -- hard on the hands , but we could see no other disadvantage . 
I am told that a mortar longer slaked might have remained longer in condition for painting . 
As it was , it took the pigment well for six hours , enough for our purpose , and held it firmly in setting . 
It was obvious that to match Brumidi , white must be mixed with all but the darkest tones . 
Lime white , hard and brilliant , has a tendency to `` jump '' away from the other colors in drying , and also by its capacity to set , to preclude the use of ready-made gradations , so useful in decorative work . 
In older Italian practice , lime , dried and reground `` bianco sangiovanni '' , entered into such prepared shades . 
For convenience we chose a stronger pigment , unknown to the early Italians or to Brumidi , titanium oxide , reserving the active lime white for highest lights , put on at the end of the day's stint . 
Other pigments were mostly raw umber , some burnt umber , and a little yellow ochre . 
This last was probably not in Brumidi's palette , but was needed to take the chill , bluish look off the new work next to the old , where softening effects of time were seen , even after thorough cleaning . 
The use of `` secco '' we tried to restrict to covering joints . 
Experience showed , however , that it is very difficult to paint a dark umber background in fresco that will not dry out spotty and uneven . 
Later Brumidi and Costaggini will be seen coping with this same problem . 
We were forced , as they were , to work a good deal of tempera into background and dark areas . 
We made it by Doerner's recipe , five parts thoroughly washed cheese curd to one of lime putty ; ; ground together they made a strong adhesive , which became waterproof in drying . 
Figure 1 was taken in 1953 . 
The new part is finished . 
On the right is the Brumidi Liberty group , as it looked after cleaning operations , which had not yet come around to the other end ; ; where , of Costaggini , only some foliage has been washed , at the point where his work stopped . 
One is led to speculate as to why the empty space was there , left for our century to finish . 
Costaggini said it was Brumidi's fault in not providing enough material to fill the circle . 
Brumidi's son later maintained that Costaggini had compressed and mutilated his father's designs , ambitiously coveting a bit he could claim for his very own . 
This question might be settled by comparing the measurement of the actual circumference with the dimensions noted , presumably in Brumidi's hand , above the various sections of his long preparatory drawing , which has been kept . 
Whosever fault , it is evident that Brumidi intended to fill out the whole frieze with his `` histories '' and come full circle with the scene of the discovery of California gold . 
In painting a fresco , the handling of wet mortar compels one always to move from top to bottom and from left to right , not to spoil yesterday's work with today's plastering . 
At the very first , then , Brumidi was required , by the classically pyramidal shape of his central group , to fill in the triangular space above the seated girl on Liberty's right , before starting on the allegorical figures themselves . 
Here he put a small man , whose missing hands might have left his function doubtful , until comparison with the first sketches showed that when the artist came back to the beginning , this was to be the closing figure of the party of `` forty-niners '' , and was to hold a basket . 
One sees Costaggini's rendering of the same figure more than thirty feet away . 
The photograph , Figure 1 of the completed frieze , shows how , having been separated from his fellows in useless isolation for eighty years , he has now been given a hand , and by juxtaposition ( and the permission of the Committee ) , given a new job , to represent the witnesses of the first flight at Kitty Hawk in 1903 . 
The startlingly bright effect of the first washings led the Committee to order the rest of the Brumidi-Costaggini cycle cleaned and restored to go with them . 
The fixed wooden scaffold was removed , and , so as to reach all the frieze , one of pipe , on wheels , built up from the floor . 
Every few days , in the early morning , as the work progressed , twenty men would appear to push it ahead and to shift the plank foundation that distributed its weight widely on the Rotunda pavement , supported as it is by ancient brick vaulting . 
On this giddy and oscillating platform over fifty feet from the floor , after a first dusting , we began to wash . 
A most useful tool for wetting the surface without running down was made from a greenhouse `` mist spray '' nozzle welded to a hose connection , to be used at low water pressure . 
A valve in the handle let us cut the pressure still lower . 
One man sprayed , with a sponge in hand to check excess wetting . 
A second assistant mopped with two sponges . 
In parts a repeated sponging was needed , but everywhere we found that water alone was enough to restore the original brightness . 
No soap or other cleaning agent was used that might bring in unwanted chemical reactions . 
The painting `` a fresco '' stood up superbly ; ; a little of the `` secco '' came off . 
Necessary retouching was put on at once . 
Altogether we found the craftsmanship first rate , especially Brumidi's . 
We were greatly helped by there being no traces of former restoring . 
Apparently not more than dusting had ever been done , and not much of that . 
The plaster was sound , the intonaco firmly attached all over , and the pigment solidly incorporated with it in all but a few unimportant places . 
The greatest source of trouble was rain which had repeatedly flowed from openings above , soaking the surface and leaving streaks of dissolved lime , very conspicuous even after cleaning , particularly in the `` Landing of Columbus '' , `` Oglethorpe and the Indians '' , and `` Yorktown '' . 
Here the Architect , referring to the use of the Capitol as a public building , not a museum , requested some repainting to maintain decorative effect , rather than leaving blank , unsightly patches . 
These frescos have had no care for eighty years . 
With naked gas jets below and leaky windows above , enough to ruin wall paintings in any medium , they have survived , in a building long unheated in winter , hot and damp under the iron dome in summer . 
Those whom I wish to address with this letter are for the most part unknown to me . 
It may well be that , when Rudy Pozzatti and I visited your country last spring , you were living and working close to the places we saw and the streets we walked . 
As American artists , it was natural that we would want to meet as many Soviet artists as possible . 
This letter might not have been necessary had our efforts to meet and talk with you been more successful . 
Even though we did not see many of your faces , it appears now quite evident that a considerable number of your profession heard , from those whom we had the fortune to encounter , that we had been in your midst . 
I am very pleased that quite a number of you found ways to communicate to me your desire to hear of our reactions and experiences in the U.S.S.R. . 
I can well understand your curiosity . 
We , ourselves , are always eager to know how others feel about us and the way in which we live . 
It is my hope that this written message and report will reach you through the good offices of the Union of Soviet Artists . 
There should be no reason to misinterpret or ignore the intent of this letter . 
Pozzatti and I endeavored earnestly to record our impressions without the prejudice that the anxiety of our time so easily provokes . 
The time-span of little more than a month cannot entitle me to pose as an expert on anything I saw . 
Too much damage is done by `` experts '' who have spent even less time , if any at all , in the U.S.S.R. . 
Nevertheless I consider it reasonable , because of my commitment as an artist , to assume that the rights and responsibilities of creative individuals are related to humanity as a whole rather than to specific geo-political interests . 
If this attitude is seriously questioned in the Soviet Union , it does not necessarily follow that the majority of the society in which I live is too aware of the necessity for clarity on this ethical as well as aesthetic point of view . 
It is a matter of some disappointment to me that still many of my own countrymen are too shortsighted to ascribe any symbolic significance to the plight of a minority , such as artists , in any social order . 
I encountered many questions and great interest upon my return from the Soviet Union about my reactions to that experience . 
That which I found most profound and most disturbing appeared to evoke a curiously muted reaction . 
Almost as if I were talking about something quite unreal . 
Apparently this is not the time and the climate in which people will listen objectively , or at least dispassionately , to individual impressions of a subject which preoccupies a good deal of their waking moments . 
Personal predispositions tend to blunt the ear and , in turn , the voice as well . 
I cannot be content with the anecdotal small talk of a somewhat unusual travelogue . 
I am equally impatient with the shrug of the shoulder , shake of the head of those who no longer care because they have known it for so long ; ; the aggressive disbelief of those who are romantically lost in a semantic jungle of the word `` Revolution '' ; ; the belligerent denunciations by the sick fanatics of ignorance who try to build a papier-mache wall of pseudo-patriotism on our physical horizons . 
Difficult as it may have been at times , Pozzatti and I saw enough , talked to enough artists , historians and others to realize that the issue is quite clear . 
Artists and poets are the raw nerve-ends of humanity ; ; they are small in number and their contribution is not immediately decisive in everyday life . 
By themselves they may not be able to save the life on this planet , but without them there would be very little left worth saving . 
It cannot be said that our very first day in the Soviet Union turned out to be an ordinary one . 
On that cold , but bright , April day we were guests of your government in the reviewing stand of Red Square to witness the poeple's celebration for Yuri Gagarin and later on that day we attended the somewhat more exclusive reception for him in one of the impressive palaces of the Kremlin . 
If we thus spent our very first day in the midst of a large number of your people honoring a new hero and a great national achievement , our last day , to us at least , was equally impressive and very moving , even though the crowds were absent and there was almost complete silence . 
We stood under a gigantic tree in the rolling country just outside of Moscow looking at silent flowers on the grave of a Russian poet and writer who cherished the love for his country to the point of foregoing the highest international honor . 
The grave , about half-way between his home and the blue turrets of a small church , rose above the forms and spaces of gently undisciplined pastures of green , the sounds of birds , the silence of other graves and the casual paths through small forests . 
Just yesterday we had met and talked with a living writer , a contemporary of the dead poet , who is known for his ability of manipulating his ideas and his craft more advantageously . 
But today we were aware of only two men . 
One had taken a flight into uncharted space , in the service of science , to return as a living hero . 
The other had assumed the right to explore the equally uncharted space of the human spirit . 
The flowers on his grave attested to the fact that he as well was somebody's hero . 
These two recollections form the frame around a series of experiences and sights which , to me at least , symbolize the extremes in the aesthetic as well as ethical conflict between materialism and humanism . 
A struggle that is being waged all over the world in the half-light of disinterest . 
The prevalent opinion which we encountered in a variety of expressions in your country denied not only the existence of this conflict but it was elaborated even further with an incredible semantic dexterity . 
The socialist environment , it was stated , had cross-fertilized these two extreme seeds and was about to produce a new plant and fruit . 
When I speculated on one such occasion that the new growth , like other mutations , might be unable to propagate , I was immediately accused of preaching racial prejudice . 
I could not bring myself to answer that `` some of my best friends are non-propagating mules '' . 
This kind of reasoning and logic takes a little time to get used to . 
After a while we were perhaps less surprised , but still puzzled , when a friendly discussion would suddenly jump the track into the most irrelevant and illogical comparisons . 
A chance remark about Lenin's sealed train brought the rejoinder that this was a myth akin to George Washington's cherry tree . 
Theories of the behavior pattern of population masses were compared to scientific discoveries concerning the motion-pattern of gaseous masses . 
No wonder that Pozzatti and I had at times difficulty in remembering the real purpose of our presence , namely , Cultural Exchange . 
Typical of such an experience was the occasion of a somewhat formal official welcome in the offices of the Union of Soviet Artists . 
We had looked forward to what we hoped to be our first informal meeting with a number of Moscow's artists . 
Instead , we became involved in a series of friendly , but overly formal , welcoming addresses to which we had no choice but to reply in kind . 
The terms of friendship , understanding , cooperation , etc. , tend to become somewhat shopworn because of constant and indiscriminate use . 
I can only hope that the continuing exchange of groups and individuals between our countries will not wear out all language pertinent to the occasion . 
The presiding female functionary , of massive proportions and forbidding appearance , initially did not contribute to the expressions of friendship and welcome by a number of dignified gentlemen representing the arts . 
It was only after we had responded , with what I fear were similar cliches , that she went into action by questioning our desire for friendship and understanding with a challenge about aggressive and warlike actions by the U.S. Government in Cuba and Laos . 
She retreated by leaving the room when we suggested that our meeting might well terminate right then and there . 
Unfortunately she returned later , just as I had taken advantage of the friendlier atmosphere in the room by stating that perhaps an unexpected result of the Cultural Exchange Program would be the re-emergence of Abstract Art in Russia , with Social Realism regaining dominance in the U.S. . 
This gave her an opportunity to ring down the curtain with the petulant admonition that we should not presume to lecture her on Abstraction . 
She did not go so far as to say , as was done on other occasions , that Abstraction as well as Impressionism were a Russian invention that had been discarded as unwanted by the people of the U.S.S.R. . 
Pozzatti and I could not know then that we would experience this sort of treatment more often in Moscow than elsewhere . 
We were to discover , in fact , that quite a number of people share with us the impression that , in contrast to other Soviet regions , Moscow's atmosphere is depressingly subdued and official . 
To have one's intentions deliberately or unintentionally misunderstood is always a waste of time . 
Until our Moscow experience , I had not considered it necessary to prepare any argument formally or informally . 
Artists simply do not talk to each other in that fashion ; ; and , furthermore , I could not presume the implication that I spoke for American artists as a group . 
To save time , some clarification seemed necessary . 
The following is a statement read to a large and friendly group of your fellow artists in Leningrad : `` We have come to your land with the express intention of understanding and respecting your ideas and your ways . 
Our presence here should also be considered further , sincere evidence of the attempts by our people and their chosen government to seek any and all possible ways to effect closer , peaceful ties among all people . 
We are quite convinced that one of the main hopes for the future depends upon the informal contacts and exchanges of ideas between individuals . 
In spite of the relatively short period of time that we have experienced among you , we have already seen many indications of your character and spirit . 
We are acutely aware that yours is a society which , in spite of several wars and many privations , has developed itself into one of the foremost nations of the world . 
Your past history is resplendent with the fruits of the intellect . 
Your present history is equally admirable for its industrial and scientific achievements . 
We have come to you to experience something of your way of life while also attempting to acquaint you with that of ours . 
While we , as American artists , believe deeply in the universal character of all intellectual activity , we would be less than honest with you , or ourselves , if we failed to state a specific attitude toward our own society as well as the international community as a whole . 
In stating this position , we should like to make it clear to you that we cannot expect artists and intellectuals in other lands to share our opinion in every respect . 
As a matter of fact , we prize the diversity among our own people so much that we will not presume to speak for all other American artists . 
But certainly , all will agree that it is not so much the knowledge and search for similarities between you and us , but rather the thoughtful exploration and acceptance of our differences which may lead us to our respective and desired goals with a minimum of misunderstanding . 
Like yourselves , we have pride and love for our country . 
To many of us , this is a land to which we or our parents fled from totalitarian terror in order to live in dignified freedom . 
As artists we feel the same obligation , as do other individuals , in considering ourselves responsible citizens of a great nation . 
The Sane Society is an ambitious work . 
Its scope is as broad as the question : What does it mean to live in modern society ? 
A work so broad , even when it is directed by a leading idea and informed by a moral vision , must necessarily `` fail '' . 
Even a hasty reader will easily find in it numerous blind spots , errors of fact and argument , important exclusions , areas of ignorance and prejudice , undue emphases on trivia , examples of broad positions supported by flimsy evidence , and the like . 
Such books are easy prey for critics . 
Nor need the critic be captious . 
A careful and orderly man , who values precision and a kind of tough intellectual responsibility , might easily be put off by such a book . 
It is a simple matter , for one so disposed , to take a work like The Sane Society and shred it into odds and ends . 
The thing can be made to look like the cluttered attic of a large and vigorous family -- a motley jumble of discarded objects , some outworn and some that were never useful , some once whole and bright but now chipped and tarnished , some odd pieces whose history no one remembers , here and there a gem , everything fascinating because it suggests some part of the human condition -- the whole adding up to nothing more than a glimpse into the disorderly history of the makers and users . 
That could be easily done , but there is little reason in it . 
It would come down to saying that Fromm paints with a broad brush , and that , after all , is not a conclusion one must work toward but an impression he has from the outset . 
I mention these features of the book because they are inherent in the book's character and therefore must be mentioned . 
It would be superfluous to build a critique around them . 
There are more substantial criticisms to be made of Fromm's account of capitalist civilization . 
It is worthwhile to recall that Fromm's treatment has both descriptive and normative aspects . 
Since I have already discussed his moral position , that discussion is incorporated by reference into the following pages , which will focus on the empirical and analytic side of Fromm's treatment . 
I shall first indicate a couple of weaknesses in Fromm's analysis , then argue that , granted these weaknesses , he still has much left that is valuable , and , finally , raise the general question of a philosophical versus a sociological approach to the question of alienation . 
Almost no empirical work has been done on the problem of alienation . 
Despite its rather long intellectual history , alienation is still a promising hypothesis and not a verified theory . 
The idea has received much attention in philosophy , in literature , and in a few works of general social criticism , such as The Sane Society . 
What is missing is work that would answer , presumably by the use of survey methods and Guttman-type attitude scales , such questions as these : What are the components of the feeling-state described as alienation ? 
How widespread is alienation ? 
What is its incidence among the various classes and subgroups of the population ? 
Taking alienation as a dependent variable , with what socio-structural factors is it most highly associated ? 
Considered as an independent variable , how does it affect behavior in various sectors of life ? 
Until such work is done , there must remain the nagging suspicion that alienation may be little more than an expression of the malaise of the intellectual , who , rejected by and in turn rejecting the larger society , projects his own fear and despair onto the broader social screen . 
I am not suggesting that Fromm ought to do this kind of work . 
Nor do I think that alienation is nothing more than a projection of the malaise of the intellectual . 
I am saying only that until a fuller and different kind of evidence comes in , any discussion of alienation must be understood to have certain important limitations . 
Until such evidence appears , we must make do with the evidence we have . 
Here , perhaps , Fromm is vulnerable , for he does not always use the best and most recent evidence available , and he sometimes selects and interprets the evidence in rather special ways . 
Three examples follow . 
Fromm's analysis of alienation in the sphere of production centers around the concepts of the bureaucratization of the corporation , the separation of ownership from control , and the broad ( and thus from the point of view of corporate control , ineffective ) dispersion of stock ownership . 
For all these points he relies exclusively on Berle and Means's study of 1932 , The Modern Corporation And Private Property . 
The broad conclusions of that pioneering work remain undisturbed , but subsequent research has expanded and somewhat altered their empirical support , has suggested important revisions in the general analytic frame of reference , and has sharpened the meaning of particular analytic concepts in this area . 
Fromm seems unaware of these developments . 
Another example is his very infrequent use of the large amount of data from surveys designed to discover what and how people actually do feel and think on a broad range of topics : he cites such survey-type findings just three times . 
Moreover , the conclusions he draws from the findings are not always the only ones possible . 
For example , he cites the following data from two studies on job satisfaction : in the first study , 85 per cent of professionals and executives , 64 per cent of white collar people , and 41 per cent of factory workers expressed satisfaction with their jobs ; ; in the second study , the percentages were 86 for professionals , 74 for managerial persons , 42 for commercial employees , 56 for skilled workers , and 48 for semi-skilled workers . 
He concludes that these data show a `` remarkably high '' percentage of consciously dissatisfied and unhappy persons among factory and clerical workers . 
Starting from other value premises than Fromm's , some analysts might conclude that the percentages really tell us very little at all , while others might even conclude that the figures are remarkably low . 
Eric Hoffer , for example , once said that America was a paradise -- the only one in the history of the world -- for workingmen and small children . 
What matters is that while Fromm's reading of the data is not the only one possible , it is precisely the one we would expect from a writer who earnestly believes that every man can and ought to be happy and satisfied . 
Fromm also cites a poll on attitudes toward work restriction conducted by the Opinion Research Corporation in 1945 , in which 49 per cent of manual workers said a man ought to turn out as much as he could in a day's work , while 41 per cent said he should not do his best but should turn out only the average amount . 
Fromm says these data show that job dissatisfaction and resentment are widespread . 
That is one way to read the findings , but again there are other ways . 
One might use such findings to indicate the strength of informal primary associations in the factory , an interpretation which would run counter to Fromm's theory of alienation . 
Or , he might remind Fromm that the 41 per cent figure is really astonishingly low : after all , the medieval guild system was dedicated to the proposition that 100 per cent of the workers ought to turn out only the average amount ; ; and today's trade unions announce pretty much the same view . 
In view of these shortcomings in both the amount and the interpretation of survey-type findings on public opinion , and considering the criticisms which can be brought against Fromm's philosophical anthropology , such a passage as the following cannot be taken seriously . 
`` Are people happy , are they as satisfied , unconsciously , as they believe themselves to be ? 
Considering the nature of man , and the conditions for happiness , this can hardly be so '' . 
The ambiguities suggested above stem from a more basic difficulty in Fromm's style of thought . 
He seems to use the term alienation in two different ways . 
Sometimes he uses it as a subjective , descriptive term , and sometimes as an objective , diagnostic one . 
That is , sometimes it is used to describe felt human misery , and other times it is postulated to explain unfelt anxiety and discontent . 
The failure to keep these two usages distinct presents hazards to the reader . 
It also permits Fromm to do some dubious things with empirical findings . 
When alienation is used as an objective and diagnostic category , for example , it becomes clear that Fromm would have to say that awareness of alienation goes far toward conquering it . 
( He , in effect , does say this in his discussion of the pseudo-happiness of the automaton conformist . 
) Starting from this , and accepting his estimate of the iniquities of modern society , it would follow that the really disturbing evidence of alienation would be that of a work-satisfaction survey which reported widespread , stated worker satisfaction , rather than widespread , stated worker dissatisfaction . 
The point is that in a system such as Fromm's which recognizes unconscious motivations , and which rests on certain ethical absolutes , empirical data can be used to support whatever proposition the writer is urging at the moment . 
Thus , in the example cited above Fromm rests his whole case on the premise that the workers are being deprived unconsciously , unknowingly , of fulfillment , and then supports this with survey data reporting conscious , experienced frustrations . 
He has his cake and eats it too : if the workers say they are dissatisfied , this shows conscious alienation ; ; if they say they are satisfied , this shows unconscious alienation . 
This sort of manipulation is especially troublesome in Fromm's work because , although his system is derived largely from certain philosophic convictions , he asserts that it is based on empirical findings drawn both from social science and from his own consulting room . 
While the `` empirical psychoanalytic '' label which Fromm claims sheds no light on the validity of his underlying philosophy , it does increase the marketability of his product . 
The final example of the failure to use available evidence , though evidence of a different kind from that which has so far been considered , comes from Fromm's treatment of some other writers who have dealt with the same themes . 
In a brief chapter dealing with `` Various Other Diagnoses '' , he quotes isolated passages from some writers whose views seem to corroborate his own , and finds it `` most remarkable that a critical view of twentieth-century society was already held by a number of thinkers living in the nineteenth . 
'' He finds it equally `` remarkable that their critical diagnosis and prognosis should have so much in common among themselves and with the critics of the twentieth century '' . 
There is nothing remarkable about this at all . 
It is largely a matter of finding passages that suit one's purposes . 
There is a difference between evidence and illustration , and Fromm's citation of the other diagnosticians fits the latter category . 
Glance at the list : Burckhardt , Tolstoy , Proudhon , Thoreau , London , Marx , Tawney , Mayo , Durkheim , Tannenbaum , Mumford , A. R. Heron , Huxley , Schweitzer , and Einstein . 
This is a delightfully motley collection . 
One can make them say the same thing only by not listening to them very carefully and hearing only what one wants to hear . 
The method of selection Fromm uses achieves exactly that . 
Furthermore , the list is interesting for its omissions . 
It omits , for example , practically the whole line of great nineteenth century English social critics , nearly all the great writers whose basic position is religious , and all those who are with more or less accuracy called Existentialists . 
Of course , the list also excludes all writers who are fairly `` optimistic '' about the modern situation ; ; these , almost by definition , are spokesmen for an alienated ideology . 
It is not hard to find that concurrence of opinion which Fromm finds so remarkable when you ignore all who hold a different opinion . 
Turning from these problems of the use of evidence , one meets another type of difficulty in Fromm's analysis , which is his loose and ambiguous use of certain important terms . 
One such instance has already been presented : his use of alienation . 
The only other one I shall mention here is his use of the term capitalism . 
For Fromm , capitalism is the enemy , the root of all evil . 
It is of course useful to have a sovereign cause on one's social criticism , for it makes diagnosis and prescription much easier than they might otherwise be . 
If one characteristic distinguishes Boris Godunov , it is the consistency with which every person on the stage -- including the chorus -- comes alive in the music . 
Much of this lifelike quality results from Mussorgsky's care in basing his vocal line on natural speech inflections . 
In this he followed a path that led back to the very source of opera ; ; such composers as Monteverdi , Lully and Purcell , with the same goal in mind , had developed styles of recitative sensitively attuned to their own languages . 
Through long experimentation in his songs , Mussorgsky developed a Russian recitative as different from others as the language itself . 
Giving most of his musical continuity to the orchestra , he lets the speech fall into place as if by coincidence , but controlling the pace and emphasis of the words . 
The moments of sung melody , in the usual sense , come most often when the character is actually supposed to be singing , as in folk songs and liturgical chants . 
Otherwise Mussorgsky reserves his vocal melodies for prolonged expressions of emotion -- Boris' first monologue , for example . 
Even then , the flexibility of the phrasing suggests that the word comes first in importance . 
Aside from Boris himself , one need but examine the secondary roles to place Mussorgsky among the masters of musical portraiture . 
Even those who appear in only one or two scenes are full personalities , defined with economical precision . 
Consider the four monks who figure prominently in the action : Pimen , Varlaam , Missail and the Jesuit Rangoni . 
Under no circumstances could we mistake one for the other ; ; each musical setting has an individual touch . 
Pimen is an old man , weak in body -- his voice rarely rises to a full forte -- but firm and clear of mind . 
His calmness offers contrast to Grigori's youthful excitement . 
A quiet but sturdy theme , somewhat folklike in character , appears whenever the old monk speaks of the history he is recording or of his own past life : This theme comes to represent the outer world , the realm of battles and banquets -- seen from a distance , quite distinct from the quieter spiritual life in the monastery . 
It changes and develops according to the text ; ; it introduces Pimen when he comes before Boris in the last act . 
Once he has been identified , however , a new melody is used to accompany his narrative , a bleak motif with barren octaves creating a rather ancient effect : An imaginative storyteller , Pimen takes on the character he describes , as if he were experiencing the old shepherd's blindness and miraculous cure . 
Here the composer uses a favorite device of his , the intensification of the mood through key relationships . 
The original D minor seems to symbolize blindness , inescapable in spite of all attempts to move away from it . 
As the child addresses the shepherd in a dream , light -- in the form of the major mode -- begins to appear , and at the moment of the miracle we hear a clear and shining D major . 
Varlaam and Missail always appear together and often sing together , in a straightforward , rhythmically vigorous idiom that distinguishes them from the more subtle and well-educated Pimen . 
Their begging song might easily be a folk melody : The same could be said for the song to which they make their entrance in the final scene . 
Apparently their origin is humble , their approach to life direct and unsophisticated . 
Whatever learning they may have had in their order doesn't disturb them now . 
Missail is the straight man , not very talkative , mild-mannered when he does speak . 
Varlaam is loud , rowdy , uninhibited in his pleasures and impatient with anyone who is not the same . 
A rough ostinato figure , heard first in the introduction to the inn scene , characterizes him amusingly and reappears whenever he comes into the action : The Song Of Kazan , in which this figure becomes a wild-sounding accompaniment , fills in the picture of undisciplined high spirits . 
The phrasing is irregular , and the abrupt key changes have a primitive forcefulness . 
( We can imagine how they startled audiences of the 1870's . 
) Varlaam's music begins to ramble as he feels the effects of the wine , but he pulls himself together when the need arises . 
Both monks respond to the guard's challenge with a few phrases of their begging song ; ; a clever naturalistic touch is Varlaam's labored reading of the warrant . 
As the knack gradually comes back to him , his rhythm becomes steadier , with the rigid monotony of an unskilled reader . 
For the only time in the opera , words are not set according to their natural inflection ; ; to do so would have spoiled the dramatic point of the scene . 
Musically and dramatically , Rangoni is as far removed from the conventional monk as Varlaam . 
His music shows a sensuality coupled with an eerie quality that suggest somehow a blood-kinship with Dappertutto in Offenbach's Hoffman . 
His speech shows none of the native accent of the Russian characters ; ; in spite of the Italian name , he sounds French . 
His personality appears more striking by contrast with Marina , who is -- perhaps purposely -- rather superficially characterized . 
Rangoni's first entrance is a musical shock , a sudden open fifth in a key totally unrelated to what has preceded it . 
The effect is as if he had materialized out of nowhere . 
He speaks quietly , concealing his authority beneath a smooth humility , just as the shifting harmonies that accompany him all but hide the firm pedal point beneath them . 
He addresses Marina with great deference , calling her `` Princess '' at first ; ; it is only after he has involved her emotions in his scheme that he uses her given name , placing himself by implication in the position of a solicitous father . 
Curiously , this scene is a close parallel to one that Verdi was writing at the same time , the scene between Amonasro and Aida . 
Rangoni and Amonasro have the same purpose -- forcing the girl to charm the man she loves into serving her country's cause -- and their tactics are much the same . 
Rangoni begins by describing the sad state of the Church ; ; this brings a reaction of distress from Marina . 
The music becomes ethereal as he calls up a vision of her own sainthood : it is she , he tells her , who can bring the truth to Russia and convert the heretics . 
As if in a trance , she repeats his words -- then realizes , with a shock , her own audacity . 
This is no assignment for a frivolous girl , she assures him . 
Now Rangoni comes to the point , and we hear , for the first time , a long , downward chromatic scale that will become the characteristic motif of his sinister power . 
It is a phrase as arresting as a magician's gesture , with a piquant turn of harmony giving an effect of strangeness . 
Another theme , sinuously chromatic , appears as he directs her to gain power over Grigori by any means , even at the cost of her honor . 
Coming from a priest , the music sounds as odd as the advice : Marina rebels at this suggestion . 
Her pride is as much at stake as her virtue ; ; she is the unattainable beauty , the princess who turns away suitors by the dozen . 
Indignantly she denounces Rangoni for his evil thoughts and orders him to leave her . 
At once the Jesuit pulls out all the stops . 
To music of a menacing darkness , he describes the powers of Satan gaining control of the girl , poisoning her soul with pride and destroying her beauty . 
The combined threat of hell-fire and ugliness is too much for her , and she falls terrified at his feet . 
With another sudden change of mood , he is again calm and protective , exhorting her to trust and obey him as God's spokesman -- and the chromatic scale descends in ominous contradiction . 
Whatever the source of Rangoni's power , Marina is his captive now ; ; we are reminded of this at the end of the next scene , when his theme cuts through the warmth of the love duet , again throwing a chill over the atmosphere . 
The most unusual feature of Boris , however , is the use of the greatest character of all , the chorus . 
This is the real protagonist of the drama ; ; the conflict is not Boris versus Grigori or Shuiski or even the ghost of the murdered child , but Boris versus the Russian people . 
Mussorgsky makes this quite clear by the extent to which choral scenes propel the action . 
Boris' first entrance seems almost a footnote to the splendor of the Coronation Scene , with its dazzling confusion of tonalities . 
We have a brief glimpse of the Tsar's public personality , the `` official Boris '' , but our real focus is on the excitement of the crowd -- a significant contrast with its halfhearted acclamation in the opening scene , its bitter resentment and fury in the final act . 
One reason for the unique vitality of the chorus is its great variety in expression . 
It rarely speaks as a unit . 
Even in its most conventional appearance , the guests' song of praise to Marina , there are a few female dissenters criticizing the princess for her coldness . 
In many passages -- for example , the council of boyars -- each section of the chorus becomes a character group with a particular opinion . 
Hot arguments arise between tenors and basses , who will sing in harmony only when they agree on an idea . 
The opening scene shows this method at its most individual . 
Mussorgsky paints a telling picture of the common people , those who must suffer the effects of their rulers' struggle for power without understanding the causes . 
They are held in control by force , but barely . 
They will kneel and plead for Boris' leadership in a strangely intense song , its phrases irregularly broken as if gasping for breath , but when the police with their cudgels move away , they mock and grumble and fight among themselves . 
There is a quick change from the plaintive song to a conversational tone . 
`` Hey , Mityukh '' , asks one group , `` what are we shouting about '' ? 
And Mityukh , apparently the intellectual leader of the crowd , replies that he has no notion . 
The jokes and arguments grow louder until the police return ; ; then the people strike up their song with even more fervor than before , ending it with a wail of despair . 
Mussorgsky frequently uses liturgical music with considerable dramatic force . 
In Pimen's cell the soft prayers of the monks , heard from offstage , not only help to set the scene but emphasize the contrast between young Grigori's thoughts and his situation . 
This is especially striking between Pimen's quiet exit and Grigori's vehement outburst against Boris . 
Again , as Boris feels himself nearing death , a procession files into the hall singing a hymn , its modal harmonies adding a churchly touch to the grim atmosphere : The words are hardly calculated to put the Tsar's mind at ease . 
They echo the words with which he has described his own vision of the dying child who `` trembles and begs for mercy -- and there is no mercy '' . 
The living as well as the dead now accuse him ; ; this final reminder of his guilt is the fatal one . 
One of the outstanding assets of the present production is the restoration of the St. Basil's scene , usually omitted from performances and rarely included in a published score . 
Though brief , it has a sharp dramatic edge and great poignancy . 
In addition , it is an important link in the plot , giving us a revealing glimpse of the people's attitude toward Boris and the false Dimitri . 
The mayhem in the forest of Kromy is a natural sequel . 
The St. Basil's scene opens with little groups of beggars milling around the square , the ever present police keeping them under scrutiny . 
In the orchestra we hear first a hushed , hesitant pizzicato figure , then the insistent `` police '' motif as it appeared in the opening scene . 
The service is over , and a number of people come from the church with their spokesman Mityukh in the lead . 
They bring the news that the Pretender has been excommunicated ; ; this is met with scorn by the hearers , who claim that Mityukh is lying or drunk . 
( Mussorgsky cleverly contrasts the two groups by their orchestral accompaniment , solemn chords or mocking staccatos . 
) There is still more news , Mityukh announces : they have prayed for the soul of the Tsarevich . 
So far these remarks , like most criticisms of Hardy , have tacitly assumed that his poetry is all of a piece , one solid mass of verse expressing a sensibility at a single stage of development . 
For critics , Hardy has had no poetic periods -- one does not speak of early Hardy or late Hardy , or of the London or Max Gate period , but simply of Hardy , as of a poetic monolith . 
This seems odd when one recalls that he wrote poetry longer than any other major English poet : `` Domicilium '' is dated `` between 1857 and 1860 '' ; ; `` Seeing The Moon Rise '' is dated August , 1927 . 
One might expect that in a poetic career of seventy-odd years , some changes in style and method would have occurred , some development taken place . 
This is not , however , the case , and development is a term which we can apply to Hardy only in a very limited sense . 
In a time when poetic style , and poetic belief as well , seem in a state of continual flux , Hardy stands out as a poet of almost perverse consistency . 
Though he struggled with philosophy all his life , he never got much beyond the pessimism of his twenties ; ; the `` sober opinion '' of his letter to Noyes , written when Hardy was eighty years old , is essentially that of his first `` philosophical '' notebook entry , made when he was twenty-five : `` The world does not despise us : it only neglects us '' ( Early Life , p. 63 ) . 
And though in his later years he revised his poems many times , the revisions did not alter the essential nature of the style which he had established before he was thirty ; ; so that , while it usually is easy to recognize a poem by Hardy , it is difficult to date one . 
There is only one sense in which it is valid to talk about Hardy's development : he did develop toward a more consistent and more effective control of that tone which we recognize as uniquely his . 
There is only one Hardy style , but in the earlier poems that style is only intermittently evident , and when it is not , the style is the style of another poet , or of the fashion of the time . 
In the later poems , however , the personal tone predominates . 
The bad early poems are bad Shakespeare or bad Swinburne ; ; the bad late poems are bad Hardy . 
There are two ways of getting at a poet's development : through his dated poems , and through the revisions which he made in later editions of his work . 
About a quarter of Hardy's poems carry an appended date line , usually the year of completion , but sometimes inclusive years ( `` 1908 - 1910 '' ) or two separate dates when Hardy worked on the poem ( `` 1905 and 1926 '' ) or an approximate date ( `` During the War '' ) . 
These dates are virtually the only clues we have to the chronology of the poems , since the separate volumes are neither chronological within themselves nor in relation to each other . 
With the exception of Satires Of Circumstance , each volume contains dated poems ranging over several decades ( Winter Words spans sixty-one years ) ; ; the internal organization rarely has any chronological order , except in obvious groups like the `` Poems of Pilgrimage '' , the `` Poems of 1912 - 13 '' , and the war poems . 
From the dated poems we can venture certain conclusions about Hardy's career in poetry , always remembering that conclusions based on a fraction of the whole must remain tentative . 
The dated poems suggest that while Hardy's concern with poetry may have been constant , his production was not . 
He had two productive periods , one in the late 1860's , the other in the decade from 1910 to 1920 ( half of the dated poems are from the latter period , and these alone total about one-tenth of all Hardy's poems ) . 
There was one sterile period : only one poem is dated between 1872 and 1882 and , except for the poems written on the trip to Italy in 1887 , very few from 1882 to 1890 . 
The dated poems also give us an idea of the degree to which Hardy drew upon past productions for his various volumes , and therefore probably are an indication of the amount of poetry he was writing at the time . 
Poems Of The Past And The Present and Time's Laughing Stocks , both published while Hardy was at work on The Dynasts , draw heavily on poems written before 1900 . 
Satires Of Circumstance and Moments Of Vision , coming during his most productive decade , are relatively self-contained ; ; the former contains no poem dated before 1909 - 10 -- that is , no poem from a period covered by a previous volume -- and the latter has only a few such . 
The last three volumes are again more dependent on the past , as Hardy's creative powers declined in his old age . 
These observations about Hardy's productivity tally with the details of his life as we know them . 
The first productive period came when he was considering poetry as a vocation , before he had decided to write fiction for a living ( in his note for Who's Who he wrote that he `` wrote verses 1865 - 1868 ; ; gave up verse for prose , 1868 - 70 ; ; but resumed it later '' ) . 
During the poetically sterile years he was writing novels at the rate of almost one a year and was , in addition , burdened with bad health ( he spent six months in bed in 1881 , too ill to do more than work slowly and painfully at A Laodicean ) . 
Two entries in The Early Life support the assumption that during this period Hardy had virtually suspended the writing of poetry . 
Mrs. Hardy records that `` at the end of November ( 1881 ) he makes a note of an intention to resume poetry as soon as possible '' ( Early Life , p. 188 ) ; ; and on Christmas Day , 1890 , Hardy wrote : `` While thinking of resuming ' the viewless Wings Of Poesy before dawn this morning , new horizons seemed to open , and worrying pettinesses to disappear '' ( Early Life , p. 302 ) . 
There are more poems dated in the 1890's than in the '80's -- Hardy had apparently resumed the viewless wings as he decreased the volume of his fiction -- but none in 1891 , the year of Tess , and only one in 1895 , the year of Jude . 
After 1895 the number increases , and in the next thirty years there is only one year for which there is no dated poem -- 1903 , when Hardy was at work on The Dynasts . 
The second productive period , the decade from 1910 to 1920 , can be related to three events : the completion of The Dynasts in 1909 , which left Hardy free of pressure for the first time in forty years ; ; the death of Emma Hardy in 1912 , which had a profound emotional effect on Hardy for which he found release in poetry ; ; and the First World War . 
It may seem strange that a poet should come to full fruition in his seventies , but we have it on Hardy's own authority that `` he was a child till he was sixteen , a youth till he was five-and-twenty , and a young man till he was nearly fifty '' ( Early Life , p. 42 ) . 
We may carry this sequence one step further and say that at seventy he was a poet at the height of his powers , wanting only the impetus of two tragedies , one personal , the other national , to loose those powers in poetry . 
Hardy's two productive decades were separated by forty years , yet between them he developed only in that he became more steadily himself -- it was a narrowing , not an expanding process . 
Like a wise gardener , Hardy pruned away the Shakespearian sonnets and songs , and the elements of meter and poetic diction to which his personal style was not suited , and let the main stock of his talent flourish . 
The range of the later poetry is considerably narrower , but the number of successful poems is far greater . 
We can see the general characteristics of the earlier decade if we look at two poems of very different qualities : `` Revulsion '' ( 1866 ) and `` Neutral Tones '' ( 1867 ) . 
There is not much to be said for `` Revulsion '' . 
Like about half of the 1860 - 70 poems , it is a sonnet on a conventional theme -- the unhappiness of love . 
Almost anyone could have written it ; ; it is competent in the sense that it makes a coherent statement without violating the rules of the sonnet form , but it is entirely undistinguished and entirely unlike Hardy . 
The language is the conventional language of the form ; ; there is no phrase or image that sounds like Hardy or that is striking enough to give individuality to the poem . 
It is smoother than Hardy usually is , but with the smoothness of anonymity . 
It is obviously a young man's poem , written out of books and not out of experience ; ; it asserts emotion without evoking it -- that is to say , it is sentimental . 
There are many such competently anonymous performances among the earlier poems . 
`` Neutral Tones '' we immediately recognize as a fine poem in Hardy's most characteristic style : the plain but not quite colloquial language , the hard , particular , colorless images , the slightly odd stanza-form , the dramatic handling of the occasion , the refusal to resolve the issue -- all these we have seen in Hardy's best poems . 
The poem does not distort the syntax of ordinary speech nor draw on exotic sources of diction , yet it is obviously not ordinary speech -- only Hardy would say `` a grin of bitterness swept thereby ; ; like an ominous bird a-wing '' , or `` wrings with wrong '' , or would describe a winter sun as `` God-curst '' . 
The details of the setting of `` Neutral Tones '' are not , strictly speaking , metaphorical , but they combine to create a mood which is appropriate both to a dismal winter day and to the end of love , and in this way love and weather , the emotions and the elements , symbolize each other in a way that is common to many of Hardy's best poems ( `` Weathers '' , `` The Darkling Thrush '' , and `` During Wind and Rain '' , for example ) and to some moving passages in the novels as well ( Far From The Madding Crowd is full of scenes constructed in this way ) . 
`` Neutral Tones '' is an excellent example of Hardy's mature style , drawn from his earliest productive period ; ; I cite it as evidence that he did not develop through new styles as he grew older ( as Yeats did ) , but that he simply learned to use better what he already had . 
In the poem we recognize and acknowledge one man's sense of the world ; ; if it is somber , it is also precise , and the precision lends authority to the vision . 
In `` Revulsion '' , on the other hand , the pessimism is a case not proven ; ; the poem offers nothing to persuade us of the speaker's right to speak as he does . 
In the 1860 - 70 decade there are many poems like `` Revulsion '' , but there is only one `` Neutral Tones '' . 
Hardy was not Hardy very often . 
The `` Poems of 1912 - 13 '' offer a good example of Hardy's style as it was manifested in the later productive decade . 
These are the poems Hardy wrote after the death of his first wife ; ; they compose a painful elegy to what might have been , to a marriage that began with a promise of happiness , and ended in long years of suffering and hatred . 
Hardy obviously felt that these poems were peculiarly personal and private ; ; he sometimes called them `` an expiation '' , and he would not allow them to be published in periodicals . 
They are the only poems that he rearranged as a group between their first appearance ( in Satires Of Circumstance ) and the publication of the Collected Poems . 
The elegiac tone is Hardy's natural tone of voice , and it is not surprising that the 1912 - 13 poems are consistently and unmistakably his . 
The view is always toward the past ; ; but the mood is not quite nostalgic -- Hardy would not allow sentiment to soften his sense of the irredeemable pastness of the past , and the eternal deadness of the dead . 
The poems are , the epigraph tells us , the `` traces of an ancient flame '' ; ; the fire of love is dead , and Hardy stands , as the speaker does in the last poem of the sequence , over the burnt circle of charred sticks , and thinks of past happiness and present grief , honest and uncomforted . 
Critically invisible , modern revolt , like X-rays and radioactivity , is perceived only by its effects at more materialistic social levels , where it is called delinquency . 
`` Disaffiliation '' , by the way , is the term used by the critic and poet , Lawrence Lipton , who has written several articles on this subject , the first of which , in The Nation , quoted as Epigraph : `` We disaffiliate . 
'' -- John L. Lewis . 
Like the pillars of Hercules , like two ruined Titans guarding the entrance to one of Dante's circles , stand two great dead juvenile delinquents -- the heroes of the post-war generation : the great saxophonist , Charlie Parker , and Dylan Thomas . 
If the word deliberate means anything , both of them certainly deliberately destroyed themselves . 
Both of them were overcome by the horror of the world in which they found themselves , because at last they could no longer overcome that world with the weapon of a purely lyrical art . 
Both of them were my friends . 
Living in San Francisco I saw them seldom enough to see them with a perspective which was not distorted by exasperation or fatigue . 
So as the years passed , I saw them each time in the light of an accelerated personal conflagration . 
The last time I saw Bird , at Jimbo's Bob City , he was so gone -- so blind to the world -- that he literally sat down on me before he realized I was there . 
`` What happened , man '' ? 
I said , referring to the pretentious `` Jazz Concert '' . 
`` Evil , man , evil '' , he said , and that's all he said for the rest of the night . 
About dawn he got up to blow . 
The rowdy crowd chilled into stillness and the fluent melody spiraled through it . 
The last time I saw Dylan , his self-destruction had not just passed the limits of rationality . 
It had assumed the terrifying inertia of inanimate matter . 
Being with him was like being swept away by a torrent of falling stones . 
Now Dylan Thomas and Charlie Parker have a great deal more in common than the same disastrous end . 
As artists , they were very similar . 
They were both very fluent . 
But this fluent , enchanting utterance had , compared with important artists of the past , relatively little content . 
Neither of them got very far beyond a sort of entranced rapture at his own creativity . 
The principal theme of Thomas's poetry was the ambivalence of birth and death -- the pain of blood-stained creation . 
Music , of course , is not so explicit an art , but anybody who knew Charlie Parker knows that he felt much the same way about his own gift . 
Both of them did communicate one central theme : Against the ruin of the world , there is only one defense -- the creative act . 
This , of course , is the theme of much art -- perhaps most poetry . 
It is the theme of Horace , who certainly otherwise bears little resemblance to Parker or Thomas . 
The difference is that Horace accepted his theme with a kind of silken assurance . 
To Dylan and Bird it was an agony and terror . 
I do not believe that this is due to anything especially frightful about their relationship to their own creativity . 
I believe rather that it is due to the catastrophic world in which that creativity seemed to be the sole value . 
Horace's column of imperishable verse shines quietly enough in the lucid air of Augustan Rome . 
Art may have been for him the most enduring , orderly , and noble activity of man . 
But the other activities of his life partook of these values . 
They did not actively negate them . 
Dylan Thomas's verse had to find endurance in a world of burning cities and burning Jews . 
He was able to find meaning in his art as long as it was the answer to air raids and gas ovens . 
As the world began to take on the guise of an immense air raid or gas oven , I believe his art became meaningless to him . 
I think all this could apply to Parker just as well , although , because of the nature of music , it is not demonstrable -- at least not conclusively . 
Thomas and Parker have more in common than theme , attitude , life pattern . 
In the practice of their art , there is an obvious technical resemblance . 
Contrary to popular belief , they were not great technical innovators . 
Their effects are only superficially startling . 
Thomas is a regression from the technical originality and ingenuity of writers like Pierre Reverdy or Apollinaire . 
Similarly , the innovations of bop , and of Parker particularly , have been vastly overrated by people unfamiliar with music , especially by that ignoramus , the intellectual jitterbug , the jazz aficionado . 
The tonal novelties consist in the introduction of a few chords used in classical music for centuries . 
And there is less rhythmic difference between progressive jazz , no matter how progressive , and Dixieland , than there is between two movements of many conventional symphonies . 
What Parker and his contemporaries -- Gillespie , Davis , Monk , Roach ( Tristano is an anomaly ) , etc. -- did was to absorb the musical ornamentation of the older jazz into the basic structure , of which it then became an integral part , and with which it then developed . 
This is true of the melodic line which could be put together from selected passages of almost anybody -- Benny Carter , Johnny Hodges . 
It is true of the rhythmic pattern in which the beat shifts continuously , or at least is continuously sprung , so that it becomes ambiguous enough to allow the pattern to be dominated by the long pulsations of the phrase or strophe . 
This is exactly what happened in the transition from baroque to rococo music . 
It is the difference between Bach and Mozart . 
It is not a farfetched analogy to say that this is what Thomas did to poetry . 
The special syntactical effects of a Rimbaud or an Edith Sitwell -- actually ornaments -- become the main concern . 
The metaphysical conceits , which fascinate the Reactionary Generation still dominant in backwater American colleges , were embroideries . 
Thomas's ellipses and ambiguities are ends in themselves . 
The immediate theme , if it exists , is incidental , and his main theme -- the terror of birth -- is simply reiterated . 
This is one difference between Bird and Dylan which should be pointed out . 
Again , contrary to popular belief , there is nothing crazy or frantic about Parker either musically or emotionally . 
His sinuous melody is a sort of naive transcendence of all experience . 
Emotionally it does not resemble Berlioz or Wagner ; ; it resembles Mozart . 
This is true also of a painter like Jackson Pollock . 
He may have been eccentric in his behavior , but his paintings are as impassive as Persian tiles . 
Partly this difference is due to the nature of verbal communication . 
The insistent talk-aboutiveness of the general environment obtrudes into even the most idyllic poetry . 
It is much more a personal difference . 
Thomas certainly wanted to tell people about the ruin and disorder of the world . 
Parker and Pollock wanted to substitute a work of art for the world . 
Technique pure and simple , rendition , is not of major importance , but it is interesting that Parker , following Lester Young , was one of the leaders of the so-called saxophone revolution . 
In modern jazz , the saxophone is treated as a woodwind and played with conventional embouchure . 
Metrically , Thomas's verse was extremely conventional , as was , incidentally , the verse of that other tragic enrage , Hart Crane . 
I want to make clear what I consider the one technical development in the first wave of significant post-war arts . 
Ornament is confabulation in the interstices of structure . 
A poem by Dylan Thomas , a saxophone solo by Charles Parker , a painting by Jackson Pollock -- these are pure confabulations as ends in themselves . 
Confabulation has come to determine structure . 
Uninhibited lyricism should be distinguished from its exact opposite -- the sterile , extraneous invention of the corn-belt metaphysicals , or present blight of poetic professors . 
Just as Hart Crane had little influence on anyone except very reactionary writers -- like Allen Tate , for instance , to whom Valery was the last word in modern poetry and the felicities of an Apollinaire , let alone a Paul Eluard were nonsense -- so Dylan Thomas's influence has been slight indeed . 
In fact , his only disciple -- the only person to imitate his style -- was W. S. Graham , who seems to have imitated him without much understanding , and who has since moved on to other methods . 
Thomas's principal influence lay in the communication of an attitude -- that of the now extinct British romantic school of the New Apocalypse -- Henry Treece , J. F. Hendry , and others -- all of whom were quite conventional poets . 
Parker certainly had much more of an influence . 
At one time it was the ambition of every saxophone player in every high school band in America to blow like Bird . 
Even before his death this influence had begun to ebb . 
In fact , the whole generation of the founding fathers of bop -- Gillespie , Monk , Davis , Blakey , and the rest -- are just now at a considerable discount . 
The main line of development today goes back to Lester Young and by-passes them . 
The point is that many of the most impressive developments in the arts nowadays are aberrant , idiosyncratic . 
There is no longer any sense of continuing development of the sort that can be traced from Baudelaire to Eluard , or for that matter , from Hawthorne through Henry James to Gertrude Stein . 
The cubist generation before World War 1 , , and , on a lower level , the surrealists of the period between the wars , both assumed an accepted universe of discourse , in which , to quote Andre Breton , it was possible to make definite advances , exactly as in the sciences . 
I doubt if anyone holds such ideas today . 
Continuity exits , but like the neo-swing music developed from Lester Young , it is a continuity sustained by popular demand . 
In the plastic arts , a very similar situation exists . 
Surrealists like Hans Arp and Max Ernst might talk of creation by hazard -- of composing pictures by walking on them with painted soles , or by tossing bits of paper up in the air . 
But it is obvious that they were self-deluded . 
Nothing looks anything like an Ernst or an Arp but another Ernst or Arp . 
Nothing looks less like their work than the happenings of random occasion . 
Many of the post-World War 2 , abstract expressionists , apostles of the discipline of spontaneity and hazard , look alike , and do look like accidents . 
The aesthetic appeal of pure paint laid on at random may exist , but it is a very impoverished appeal . 
Once again what has happened is an all-consuming confabulation of the incidentals , the accidents of painting . 
It is curious that at its best , the work of this school of painting -- Mark Rothko , Jackson Pollock , Clyfford Still , Robert Motherwell , Willem De-Kooning , and the rest -- resembles nothing so much as the passage painting of quite unimpressive painters : the mother-of-pearl shimmer in the background of a Henry McFee , itself a formula derived from Renoir ; ; the splashes of light and black which fake drapery in the fashionable imitators of Hals and Sargent . 
Often work of this sort is presented as calligraphy -- the pure utterance of the brush stroke seeking only absolute painteresque values . 
You have only to compare such painting with the work of , say , Sesshu , to realize that someone is using words and brushes carelessly . 
At its best the abstract expressionists achieve a simple rococo decorative surface . 
Its poverty shows up immediately when compared with Tiepolo , where the rococo rises to painting of extraordinary profundity and power . 
A Tiepolo painting , however confabulated , is a universe of tensions in vast depths . 
A Pollock is an object of art -- bijouterie -- disguised only by its great size . 
In fact , once the size is big enough to cover a whole wall , it turns into nothing more than extremely expensive wallpaper . 
Now there is nothing wrong with complicated wallpaper . 
There is just more to Tiepolo . 
The great Ashikaga brush painters painted wallpapers , too -- at least portable ones , screens . 
A process of elimination which leaves the artist with nothing but the play of his materials themselves cannot sustain interest in either artist or public for very long . 
So , in the last couple of years , abstract expressionism has tended toward romantic suggestion -- indications of landscape or living figures . 
Anglo-Saxon and Greek epic each provide on two occasions a seemingly authentic account of the narration of verse in the heroic age . 
Hrothgar's court bard sings of the encounters at Finnsburg ( lines 1068 - 1159 ) , and improvises the tale of Beowulf's exploits in a complimentary comparison of the Geatish visitor with Sigemund ( lines 871 - 892 ) ; ; Alcinous' court bard sings of the discovered adultery of Ares and Aphrodite ( Odyssey 8 266-366 ) , and takes up a tale of Odysseus while the Ithacan wanderer listens on ( Odyssey 8 499-520 ) . 
Nothing in all this is autobiographical : unlike the poets of Deor and Widsith , the poet of Beowulf is not concerned with his own identity ; ; the poet of The Odyssey , reputed blind , reveals himself not at all in singing of the blind minstrel Demodocus . 
Since none of these glimpses of poetizing without writing is intended to incorporate a signature into the epic matter , there is prima-facie evidence that Beowulf and the Homeric poems each derive from an oral tradition . 
That such a tradition lies behind The Iliad and The Odyssey , at least , is hard to deny . 
Milman Parry rigorously defended the observation that the extant Homeric poems are largely formulaic , and was led to postulate that they could be shown entirely formulaic if the complete corpus of Greek epic survived ; ; he further reasoned that frequent formulas in epic verse indicate oral composition , and assumed the slightly less likely corollary that oral epic is inclined towards the use of formulas . 
Proceeding from Parry's conclusions and adopting one of his schemata , Francis P. Magoun , Jr. , argues that Beowulf likewise was created from a legacy of oral formulas inherited and extended by bards of successive generations , and the thesis is striking and compelling . 
Yet a fresh inspection will indicate one crucial amendment : Beowulf and the Homeric poems are not at all formulaic to the same extent . 
The bondage endurable by an oral poet is to be estimated only by a very skilful oral poet , but it appears safe to assume that no sustained narrative in rhyme could be composed without extreme difficulty , even in a language of many terminal inflections . 
Assonance seems nearly as severe a curb , although in a celebrated passage William of Malmesbury declares that A Song Of Roland was intoned before the battle commenced at Hastings . 
The Anglo-Saxon alliterative line and the Homeric hexameter probably imposed less of a restraint ; ; the verse of Beowulf or of The Iliad and The Odyssey was not easy to create but was not impossible for poets who had developed their talents perforce in earning a livelihood . 
Yet certain aids were valuable and quite credibly necessary for reciting long stretches of verse without a pause . 
The poet in a written tradition who generally never blots a line may once in a while pause and polish without incurring blame . 
But the oral poet cannot pause ; ; he must improvise continuously with no apparent effort . 
Even though the bondage of his verse is not so great as the writing poet can manage , it is still great enough for him often to be seriously impeded unless he has aids to facilitate rapid composition . 
The Germanic poet had such aids in the kennings , which provided for the difficulties of alliteration ; ; the Homeric poet had epithets , which provided for recurring needs in the hexameter . 
Either poet could quickly and easily select words or phrases to supply his immediate requirements as he chanted out his lines , because the kennings and the epithets made possible the construction of systems of numerous synonyms for the chief common and proper nouns . 
Other synonyms could of course serve the same function , and for the sake of ease I shall speak of kennings and epithets in the widest and loosest possible sense , and name , for example , Gar-Dene a kenning for the Danes . 
Verbal and adverbial elements too participated in each epic diction , but it is for the present sufficient to mark the large nominal and adjectival supply of semantic near-equivalents , and to designate the members of any system of equivalents as basic formulas of the poetic language . 
Limited to a few thousand lines of heroic verse in Anglo-Saxon as in the other Germanic dialects , we cannot say how frequently the kennings in Beowulf recurred in contemporary epic on the same soil . 
But we can say that since a writing poet , with leisure before him , would seem unlikely to invent a technique based upon frequent and substantial circumlocution , the kennings like the epithets must reasonably be ascribed to an oral tradition . 
One of the greatest Homerists of our time , Frederick M. Combellack , argues that when it is assumed The Iliad and The Odyssey are oral poems , the postulated single redactor called Homer cannot be either credited with or denied originality in choice of phrasing . 
Any example of grand or exquisite diction may have been created by the poet who compiled numerous lays into the two works we possess or may be due to one of his completely unknown fellow-craftsmen . 
The quest of the historical Homer is likely never to have further success ; ; no individual word in The Iliad or The Odyssey can be credited to any one man ; ; no strikingly effective element of speech in the extant poems can with assurance be said not to have been a commonplace in the vaster epic corpus that may have existed at the beginning of the first millennium before Christ . 
This observation is of interest not only to students of Homeric poetry but to students of Anglo-Saxon poetry as well . 
To the extent that a tale is twice told , its final author must be suspect , although plagiarism in an oral tradition is less a misdemeanor than the standard modus dicendi . 
Combellack argues further , and here he makes his main point , that once The Iliad and The Odyssey are thought formulaic poems composed for an audience accustomed to formulaic poetry , Homeric critics are deprived of an entire domain they previously found arable . 
With a few important and a few more unimportant exceptions , no expression can be deemed le mot juste for its context , because each was very probably the only expression that long-established practice and ease of rapid recitation would allow . 
Words or phrases that connoisseurs have admired as handsome or ironic or humorous must therefore lose merit and become regarded as mere inevitable time-servers , sometimes accurate and sometimes not . 
This observation too may have reference to Anglo-Saxon poetry . 
To the extent that a language is formulaic , its individual components must be regarded as no more distinguished than other cliches . 
W. F. Bryan suggests that certain kennings in Beowulf were selected sometimes for appropriateness and sometimes for ironic inappropriateness , but such a view would appear untenable unless it is denied that the language of Beowulf is formulaic . 
If the master of scops who was most responsible for the poem ever used kennings that were traditional , he was at least partly deprived of free will and not inclined towards shrewd and sophisticated misuse of speech elements . 
Once many significant phrases are found in theory or in recurrent practice to provide for prosodic necessity , they are not to be defended for their semantic properties in isolated contexts . 
It is false to be certain of having discovered in the language of Beowulf such effects as intentional irony . 
Yet , if the argument is turned awry , there may be found a great deal in Bryan's view , after all . 
A formulaic element need not be held meaningless merely because it was selected with little conscious reflection . 
Time-servers , though the periphrastic expressions are , they may nevertheless be handsome or ironic or humorous . 
A long evolution in an oral tradition caused the poetic language of the heroic age to be based upon formulas that show the important qualities of things , and these formulas are therefore potentially rather than always actually accurate . 
True , we do not know how they were regarded in their day , but we need not believe the epic audience to have been more insensitive to the formulas than the numerous scholars of modern times who have read Germanic or Homeric poetry all their lives and still found much to admire in occasional occurrences of the most familiar phrases . 
Nouns and adjectives in a written tradition are chosen for the nonce ; ; in an oral tradition they may be chosen for the entire epic corpus , and tend towards idealization rather than distinctive delineation . 
Reliance is therefore not to be placed upon the archaeological particulars in an oral poem ; ; no-one today would hope to discover the unmistakable ruins of Heorot or the palace of Priam . 
A ship at dry-dock could be called a foamy-necked floater in Anglo-Saxon or a swift ship in Greek . 
Even when defenseless of weapons the Danes would be Gar-Dene ( as their king is Hrothgar ) and Priam would be EUMMELIHS . 
Achilles , like Siegfried in The Nibelungenlied , is potentially the swiftest of men and may accordingly be called swift-footed even when he stands idle . 
In Coriolanus the agnomen of Marcius is used deliberately and pointedly , but the Homeric epithets and the Anglo-Saxon kennings are used casually and recall to the hearer `` a familiar story or situation or a useful or pleasant quality of the referent '' . 
The epic language was not entirely the servant of the poet ; ; it was partly his master . 
The poet's intentions are difficult to discern and , except to biographers , unimportant ; ; the language , however , is a proper object of scrutiny , and the effects of the language are palpable even if sometimes inevitable . 
Beowulf and the Homeric poems appear oral compositions . 
Yet they are written ; ; at some stage in their evolution they were transcribed . 
Albert B. Lord suggests that the Homeric poems were dictated to a scribe by a minstrel who held in his mind the poems fully matured but did not himself possess the knowledge of writing since it would be useless to his guild , and Magoun argues that the Beowulf poet and Cynewulf may have dictated their verse in the same fashion . 
This explanation is attractive , but is vitiated at least in part by the observation that Cynewulf , though he used kennings in the traditional manner , was a literate man who four times inscribed his name by runes into his works . 
If Cynewulf was literate , the Beowulf poet may have been also , and so may the final redactor of The Iliad and The Odyssey . 
In lieu of the amanuensis to the blind or illiterate bard , one may conceive of a man who heard a vast store of oral poetry recited , and became intimately familiar with the established aids to poetizing , and himself wrote his own compositions or his edition of the compositions of the past . 
Other theories of origin are compatible with the formulaic theory : Beowulf may contain a design for terror , and The Iliad may have a vast hysteron-proteron pattern answering to a ceramic pattern produced during the Geometric Period in pottery . 
The account of the growth and final transcription of these epics rests partly , however , upon the degree to which they were formulaic . 
Carl Eduard Schmidt counted 1804 different lines repeated exactly in the two Homeric poems , and by increasing this figure so as to include lines repeated with very slight modifications he counted 2118 different lines used a total of 5612 times . 
Thus one line in five from The Iliad and The Odyssey is to be found somewhere else in the two poems . 
The ratio is thoroughly remarkable , because the lines are so long -- half again as long as those of Beowulf . 
Anglo-Saxon poetry appears to have no comparable amount of repetition ; ; there is no reason to think that the scop used and re-used whole lines and even lengthy passages after the manner of his Homeric colleague . 
In determining the extent to which any poem is formulaic it is idle , however , to inspect nothing besides lines repeated in their entirety , for a stock of line-fragments would be sufficient to permit the poet to extemporize with deftness if they provided for prosodic needs . 
The closest scrutiny is owed to the Anglo-Saxon kennings and the Homeric epithets ; ; if any words or phrases are formulaic , they will be . 
The Iliad has two words for the shield , ASPIS and SAKOS . 
Recent criticism of Great Expectations has tended to emphasize its symbolic and mythic content , to show , as M. D. Zabel has said of Dickens generally , that much of the novel's impact resides in its `` allegoric insight and moral metaphor '' . 
J. H. Miller's excellent chapter on Great Expectations has lately illustrated how fruitfully that novel can be read from such a perspective . 
In his analysis , however , he touches upon but fails to explore an idea , generally neglected in discussions of the book , which I believe is central to its art -- the importance of human hands as a recurring feature of the narrative . 
This essay seeks to make that exploration . 
Dickens was not for nothing the most theatrical of the great Victorian writers . 
He knew instinctively that next to voice and face an actor's hands are his most useful possession -- that in fiction as in the theatre , gesture is an indispensable shorthand for individualizing character and dramatizing action and response . 
It is hardly accidental , therefore , that many of his most vivid figures do suggestive or eccentric things with their hands . 
In Great Expectations the hands become almost an obsession . 
Mr. Jaggers habitually bites his forefinger , a gesture which conveys both contempt and the inscrutable abstractedness that half fascinates , half terrifies all who have dealings with him . 
Miss Havisham's withered hands , heavy as if her unhappiness were somehow concentrated in them , move in restless self-pity between her broken heart and her walking stick . 
Pumblechook's `` signature '' is the perpetually extended glad hand . 
Wemmick reveals his self-satisfaction by regularly rubbing his hands together . 
Old Mr. Pocket's frantic response to life imprisonment with a useless , social-climbing wife is to `` put his two hands into his disturbed hair '' and `` make an extraordinary effort to lift himself up by it '' , whereas Joe Gargery endures the shrewish onslaughts of Mrs. Joe by apologetically drawing `` the back of his hand across and across his nose '' . 
Such mannerisms would be less worthy of remark , were it not that in Great Expectations , as in no other of Dickens' novels , hands serve as a leitmotif of plot and theme -- a kind of unifying symbol or natural metaphor for the book's complex of human interrelationships and the values and attitudes that motivate them . 
Dickens not only reveals character through gesture , he makes hands a crucial element of the plot , a means of clarifying the structure of the novel by helping to define the hero's relations with all the major characters , and a device for ordering such diverse themes as guilt , pursuit , crime , greed , education , materialism , enslavement ( by both people and institutions ) , friendship , romantic love , forgiveness , and redemption . 
We have only to think of Lady Macbeth or the policeman-murderer in Thomas Burke's famous story , `` The Hands Of Mr. Ottermole '' , to realize that hands often call up ideas of crime and punishment . 
So it is with Great Expectations , whether the hands be Orlick's as he strikes down Mrs. Gargery or Pip's as he steals a pie from her pantry . 
Such associations suit well with the gothic or mystery-story aspects of Dickens' novel , but , on a deeper plane , they relate to the themes of sin , guilt , and pursuit that have recently been analyzed by other critics . 
The novel opens with a fugitive convict frantically trying to avoid the nemesis of being `` laid hands on '' -- a mysterious figure who looks into Pip's frightened eyes in the churchyard `` as if he were eluding the hands of the dead people , stretching up cautiously out of their graves , to get a twist upon his ankle and pull him in '' . 
Magwitch terrifies Pip into stealing a pork pie for him by creating the image in the boy's imagination of a bogy man who may `` softly creep his way to him and tear him open '' , `` imbruing his hands '' in him . 
As Pip agonizes over the theft that his own hands have committed , his guilty conscience projects itself upon the wooden finger of a local signpost , transforming it into `` a phantom devoting me to the Hulks '' . 
Held upside down in the graveyard , Pip clings in terror `` with both hands '' to his convict ; ; later he flees in panic from the family table just as his theft is about to be discovered and is blocked at the front door by a soldier who accusingly holds out a pair of handcuffs which he has brought to Gargery's forge for mending . 
Through such details Dickens indicates at the outset that guilt is a part of the ironic bond between Pip and Magwitch which is so unpredictably to alter both their lives . 
Since they commonly translate thoughts and feelings into deeds , hands naturally represent action , and since nearly half the characters in Great Expectations are of the underworld or closely allied to it , the linking of hands with crime or violence is not to be wondered at . 
Dickens , for excellent psychological reasons , never fully reveals Magwitch's felonious past , but Pip , at the convict's climactic reappearance in London , shrinks from clasping a hand which he fears `` might be stained with blood '' . 
Orlick slouches about the forge `` like Cain '' with `` his hands in his pockets '' , and when he shouts abuse at Mrs. Joe for objecting to his holiday , she claps her hands in a tantrum , beats them `` upon her bosom and upon her knees '' , and clenches them in her husband's hair . 
This last `` rampage '' is only the prelude to the vicious blow upon her head , `` dealt by some unknown hand '' whose identity is later revealed not verbally but through a manual action -- the tracing of Orlick's hammer upon a slate . 
Pip himself is to feel the terror of Orlick's `` murderous hand '' in his secret rendezvous at the sluicehouse on the marshes . 
Dickens lays great emphasis on the hands in this scene . 
Orlick shakes his hand at Pip , bangs the table with his fist , draws his unclenched hand `` across his mouth as if his mouth watered '' for his victim , lets his hands hang `` loose and heavy at his sides '' , and Pip observes him so intensely that he knows `` of the slightest action of his fingers '' . 
Orlick might almost be Magwitch's bogy man come alive , a figure of nemesis from Pip's phantasy of guilt . 
The scarred , disfigured wrists of Mr. Jaggers' housekeeper are the tell-tale marks of her sinister past , for her master , coolly exhibiting them to his dinner guests , makes a point of the `` force of grip there is in these hands '' . 
Jaggers' iron control over her ( `` she would remove her hands from any dish she put before him , hesitatingly , as if she dreaded his calling her back ) '' ) rests on his having once got her acquitted of a murder charge by cleverly contriving her sleeves at the trial to conceal her strength and by passing off the lacerations on the backs of her hands as the scratches of brambles rather than of human fingernails . 
It is the similarity between Estella's hands and Molly's ( `` The action of her fingers was like the action of knitting '' ) that provides Pip with a vital clue to the real identity of both and establishes a symbolic connection between the underworld of crime and the genteel cruelty of Satis House . 
Finally , Magwitch's pursuit of Compeyson , his archenemy and betrayer , begins by his holding him in a vicelike grip on the river flats to frustrate his escape and culminates in his `` laying his hand on his cloak to identify him '' , thus precipitating the death-locked struggle in the water during which Compeyson drowns . 
Magwitch's hand here ironically becomes the agent of justice . 
But only in one of its aspects is Great Expectations a tale of violence , revenge , and retribution . 
Money , so important a theme elsewhere in Dickens , is here central , and hands are often associated in some way with the false values -- acquisitiveness , snobbery , self-interest , hypocrisy , toadyism , irresponsibility , injustice -- that attach to a society based upon the pursuit of wealth . 
Dickens suggests the economic evils of such a society on the first page of his novel in the description of Pip's five little dead brothers `` who gave up trying to get a living exceedingly early in that universal struggle '' , who seemed to have `` all been born on their backs with their hands in their trousers-pockets , and had never taken them out in this state of existence '' . 
Pip's great expectations , his progress through illusion and disillusionment , turn , somewhat as they do for the naive hero of Dreiser's American Tragedy , upon the lure of genteel prosperity through unearned income -- what Wemmick calls `` portable property '' and what Jaggers reproaches Pip for letting `` slip through ( his ) fingers '' . 
Since a gentleman must , if possible , avoid sullying them by work , his hands , as importantly as his accent , become the index of social status . 
Almost the first step in the corruption of Pip's values is the unworthy shame he feels when Estella cruelly remarks the coarseness of his hands : `` They had never troubled me before , but they troubled me now , as vulgar appendages '' . 
Pip imagines how Estella would look down upon Joe's hands , roughened by work in the smithy , and the deliberate contrast between her white hands and his blackened ones is made to symbolize the opposition of values between which Pip struggles -- idleness and work , artificiality and naturalness , gentility and commonness , coldness and affection -- in fact , between Satis House and the forge . 
When the snobbery that alienates Pip from Joe finally gives way before the deeper and stronger force of love , the reunion is marked by an embarrassed handshake at which Pip exclaims : `` No , don't wipe it off -- for God's sake , give me your blackened hand '' ! 
Pip's abject leave-taking of Miss Havisham , during which he kneels to kiss her hand , signalizes his homage to a supposed patroness who seems to be opening up for him a new world of glamour ; ; when , on the journey to London that immediately follows , he pauses nostalgically to lay his hand upon the finger-post at the end of the village , the wooden pointer symbolically designates a spiritual frontier between innocence and the corruption of worldly vanity . 
Incidentally , one cannot miss the significance of this gesture , for Dickens reintroduces it associatively in Pip's mind at another moral and psychological crisis -- his painful recognition , in a talk with Herbert Pocket , that his hopeless attachment to Estella is as self-destructive as it is romantic . 
In both cases the finger-post represents Pip's heightened awareness of contrary magnetisms . 
A variety of hand movements helps dramatize the moral climate of the fallen world Pip encounters beyond the forge . 
The vulture-like attendance of the Pocket family upon Miss Havisham is summed up in the hypocritical gestures of Miss Camilla Pocket , who puts her hand to her throat in a feigned spasm of grief-stricken choking , then lays it `` upon her heaving bosom '' with `` an unnatural fortitude of manner '' , and finally kisses it to Miss Havisham in a parody of the lady's own mannerism toward Estella . 
Pumblechook's hands throughout the novel serve to travesty greed and hypocritical self-aggrandizement . 
We first see him shaking Mrs. Joe's hand on discovering the sizable amount of the premium paid to her husband for Pip's indenture as an apprentice and later pumping Pip's hands `` for the hundredth time at least '' ( `` May I -- may I -- '' ? 
) in effusive congratulation to Pip on his expectations . 
We take leave of Pumblechook as he gloats over Pip's loss of fortune , extending his hand `` with a magnificently forgiving air '' and exhibiting `` the same fat five fingers '' , one of which he identifies with `` the finger of Providence '' and shakes at Pip in a canting imputation of the latter's `` ingratitoode '' and his own generosity as Pip's `` earliest benefactor '' . 
Pip first learns `` the stupendous power of money '' from the sycophantic tailor , Mr. Trabb , whose brutality to his boy helper exactly matches the financial resource of each new customer , and whose fawning hands touch `` the outside of each elbow '' and `` rub '' Pip out of the shop . 
The respectability which money confers implies a different etiquette , and , upon taking up the life of a London gentleman , Pip must learn from Herbert Pocket that `` the spoon is not generally used over-hand , but under '' . 
The following items may be specified in actual or symbolic form in the operands of those instructions which refer to the particular items : channel , unit , combined channel and unit , combined arm and file , unit record synchronizers , inquiry synchronizers , and alteration switches . 
The declarative operation EQU is used to equate symbolic names to item numbers ( see page 85 ) . 
Continuation cards Certain Autocoder statements make provision for more parameters than may be contained in the operand ( columns 21 - 75 ) of a single line on the Autocoder coding sheet . 
When this is the case , the appropriate section of this manual will indicate that `` Continuation Cards '' may be used . 
Thus , when specifically permitted , the operand of a given line on the Autocoder coding sheet may be continued in the operand of from one to four additional lines which immediately follow . 
The label and operation columns must be blank and the continuation of the operand must begin in column 21 ; ; i.e. , it must be left-justified in the operand column of the coding sheet . 
The operand need not extend across the entire operand column of either the header card or continuation cards but may end with the comma following any parameter . 
Remarks may appear to the right of the last parameter on each card provided they are separated from the operand by at least two blank spaces . 
Illustrations of the use of continuation cards are included throughout the examples illustrating the various statements . 
If a continuation card follows a statement that does not permit continuation cards , the compiler will generate a NOP and issue an error message . 
Additional restrictions regarding the use of continuation cards with macro-instructions appear on page 106 . 
Reservation of index words and electronic switches The assignment of actual addresses to symbolic index word and electronic switch names occurs in Phase 3 , of the Autocoder processor . 
The initial availability of index words and electronic switches is determined by a table which is included in the Compiler Systems Tape . 
This table originally indicates that index words 1 through 96 and electronic switches 1 through 30 are available for assignment to symbolic references ; ; index words 97 through 99 are not available . 
The initial setting of this table may be altered , however , as described in the 7070/7074 Data Processing System Bulletin `` IBM 7070/7074 Compiler System : Operating Procedure '' , form Aj . 
During the first pass of Phase 3 , , references to the actual addresses of index words and electronic switches are collected and the availability table is updated . 
At the end of this pass , the table indicates which index words and electronic switches are not available for assignment to symbolic references . 
Both index words and electronic switches may have been made unavailable before the start of assignment in one of the following ways . 
1 . 
The initial setting of the availability table indicated that the index word or electronic switch was not available for assignment . 
2 . 
The one- or two-digit number of the index word or electronic switch was used in the operand of a symbolic machine instruction to specify indexing or as a parameter which is always an index word or electronic switch , e.g. , 3 . 
The one- or two-digit number of the index word or electronic switch was used in the operand of an EQU statement , e.g. , When the index words or electronic switches are reserved because of actual usage in the statements described above , the position or order of the statements within the program is not important ; ; any such reference will make the index word or electronic switch unavailable at the end of this pass . 
During the assignment pass of Phase 3 , , index words and electronic switches are reserved as they are encountered during assignment . 
Index words and electronic switches may be reserved in the following ways . 
The first two methods apply to both index words and electronic switches ; ; the third applies only to index words . 
1 . 
During the assignment pass , each instruction is examined for reference to the symbolic name of an index word or electronic switch . 
When such a reference is found , an actual address is assigned and the availability table is changed so that the assigned index word or switch is no longer available for later assignment . 
2 . 
If the one- or two-digit address of an index word or electronic switch is used or is included in the operand of an XRESERVE or SRESERVE statement ( see page 99 ) , the corresponding index word or electronic switch is reserved . 
3 . 
If a statement has been assigned an address in the index word area by means of an actual label or by means of an origin statement which refers to an actual address , the corresponding index word will be reserved . 
These entries should normally appear at the beginning of the program or immediately following each LITORIGIN statement . 
Otherwise , symbolic names may have previously been assigned to these same index words . 
( This method does not apply to electronic switches . 
) The preceding methods allow efficient use of index words and electronic switches during a sectionalized or multi-phase program , particularly when used in conjunction with the LITORIGIN statement . 
Extreme caution should be used , however , to avoid the conflicting usage of an index word or electronic switch which may result from the assignment of more than one name or function to the same address . 
If the symbolic name or actual address of an index word or electronic switch appears or is included in the operand of an XRELEASE or SRELEASE statement ( see page 101 ) , the specified index word or electronic switch will again be made available , regardless of the method by which it was reserved . 
It will not , however , be used for symbolic assignment until all other index words or electronic switches have been assigned for the first time . 
If , at any time during the assignment pass , the compiler finds that there are no more index words available for assignment , the warning message `` No More Index Words Available '' will be placed in the object program listing , the table will be altered to show that index words 1 through 96 are available , and the assignment will continue as before . 
If the compiler finds that there are no more electronic switches available for assignment , the warning message `` No More Electronic Switches Available '' will be placed in the object program listing , the table will be altered to show that electronic switches 1 through 30 are available , and assignment will continue as before . 
The resultant conflicting usage of index words or electronic switches may be avoided by reducing the number of symbolic names used , e.g. , through the proper use of the EQU , XRELEASE , or SRELEASE statements . 
As noted in Appendix C , index words 97 through 99 are never available for assignment to symbolic names by the compiler ; ; also , index words 93 through 96 may have been made unavailable for assignment . 
Declarative statements Autocoder declarative statements provide the processor with the necessary information to complete the imperative operations properly . 
Declarative statements are never executed in the object program and should be separated from the program instruction area , placed preferably at its beginning or end . 
Otherwise , special care must be taken to branch around them so that the program will not attempt to execute something in a data area as an instruction . 
If the compiler does encounter such statements , a warning message will be issued . 
7070/7074 Autocoder includes the following declarative statements : DA ( Define Area ) , DC ( Define Constant ) , DRDW ( Define Record Definition Word ) , DSW ( Define Switch ) , DLINE ( Define Line ) , EQU ( Equate ) , CODE,DTF ( Define Tape File ) , DIOCS ( Define Input/Output Control System ) , and DUF ( Descriptive Entry For Unit Records ) . 
DA , DC , DTF , and DLINE require more than one entry . 
The DA statement is used to name and define the positions and length of fields within an area . 
The DC statement is used to name and enter constants into the object program . 
Since the 7070 and 7074 make use of record definition words ( RDWS ) to read , write , move , and otherwise examine blocks of storage , the DA and DC statements provide the option of generating RDWS automatically . 
When so instructed , Autocoder will generate one or more RDWS and assign them successive locations immediately preceding the area with which they are to be associated . 
An RDW will be of the form Af , where xxxx is the starting location of the area and yyyy is its ending location . 
These addresses are calculated automatically by the processor . 
In some cases , it may be more advantageous to assign locations to RDWS associated with DA and DC areas in some other part of storage , i.e. , not immediately preceding the DA or DC areas . 
The DRDW statement may be used for this purpose . 
The DRDW statement may also be used to generate an RDW defining any area specified by the programmer . 
As many as ten digital switches may be named and provided by the DSW statement for consideration by the SETSW and logic macro-instructions . 
Each switch occupies one digit position in a word , can be set on or off , and is considered as logically equivalent to an electronic switch . 
It cannot , however , be referred to by electronic switch commands , e.g. , ESN , BSN , etc. . 
An individual switch or the entire set of switches in a word may be tested or altered as desired . 
Through use of the DLINE statement , a means is provided for specifying both the editing of fields to be inserted in a print line area and the layout of the area itself . 
The area may include constant information supplied by the programmer . 
The area may also be provided with additional data during the running of the object program by means of EDMOV or move macro-instructions . 
The declarative statement EQU permits the programmer to equate symbolic names to actual index words , electronic switches , arm and file numbers , tape channel and unit numbers , alteration switches , etc. , and to equate a symbol to another symbol or to an actual address . 
The DIOCS , DTF , and DUF statements are used when required by the Input/Output Control System . 
DIOCS is used to select the major methods of processing to be used , and to name the index words used by Aj . 
Each tape file must be described by Tape File Specifications , produced by Aj . 
In addition to information related to the file and its records , the File Specifications contain subroutine locations and the location of tape label information . 
A DUF entry must be supplied for every unit record file describing the type of file and the unit record equipment to be used . 
The DUF also supplies the locations of subroutines written by the user that are unique to the file . 
A full description of the DIOCS , DTF , and DUF statements is contained in the 7070 Data Processing System Bulletin `` IBM 7070 Input/Output Control System '' , form Aj . 
Brief descriptions of these three declarative statements and detailed descriptions of the formats and functions of each of the other 7070/7074 Autocoder declarative statements follow below . 
diocs -- define input/output control system When the Input/Output Control System is to be used in a program , a DIOCS statement must be used to select the major methods of processing to be used . 
This statement also allows the naming of the index words used by Aj . 
Source program format The basic format of the DIOCS statement is as follows : anylabel is any symbolic label ; ; it may be omitted . 
The entry DIOCS must be written exactly as shown . 
The first item in the operand , IOCSIXF , is used to specify the first IOCS index word for programs using tape files . 
This item may be a symbolic name or an actual one-digit or two-digit index word address in the range 3 - 94 . 
If the first item in the operand is omitted , the symbolic name IOCSIXF will be assigned . 
When an actual index word or a symbolic address is specified , Autocoder will equate the name IOCSIXF to it . 
The second item in the operand , IOCSIXG , is used to specify the second IOCS index word for programs using tape files . 
This item may be a symbolic name or an actual one-digit or two-digit index word address in the range 3 - 94 . 
If the second item in the operand is omitted , the symbolic name IOCSIXG will be assigned . 
When an actual index word or a symbolic address is specified , Autocoder will equate IOCSIXG to it . 
In the Midwest , oxidation ponds are used extensively for the treatment of domestic sewage from suburban areas . 
The high cost of land and a few operational problems resulting from excessive loadings have created the need for a wastewater treatment system with the operational characteristics of the oxidation pond but with the ability to treat more organic matter per unit volume . 
Research at Fayette , Missouri on oxidation ponds has shown that the BOD in the treated effluent varied from 30 to 53 mg/l with loadings from 8 to 120 lb . 
Since experience indicates that effluents from oxidation ponds do not create major problems at these BOD concentrations , the goal for the effluent quality of the accelerated treatment system was the same as from conventional oxidation ponds . 
Recent studies by Weston and Stack had indicated that a turbine aerator could be added to an oxidation pond to increase the rate of oxygen transfer . 
Their study showed that it was possible to transfer 3 to 4 lb of oxygen / hr. / hp. . 
O'Connor and Eckenfelder discussed the use of aerated lagoons for treating organic wastes . 
They indicated that a 4-day retention , aerated lagoon would give 60 to 76 per cent BOD reduction . 
Later , Eckenfelder increased the efficiency of treatment to between 75 and 85 per cent in the summer months . 
It appeared from the limited information available that the aerated lagoon might offer a satisfactory means of increasing the capacity of existing oxidation ponds as well as providing the same degree of treatment in a smaller volume . 
Red Bridge Subdivision With the development of the Red Bridge Subdivision south of Kansas City , Missouri , the developer was faced with the problem of providing adequate sewage disposal . 
The sewage system from Kansas City was not expected to serve the Red Bridge area for several years . 
This necessitated the construction of temporary sewage treatment facilities with an expected life from 5 to 15 Aj . 
For the initial development an oxidation pond was constructed as shown in Figure 1 . 
The oxidation pond has a surface area of 4.77 acres and a depth of 4 Aj . 
The pond is currently serving 1,230 persons or 260 persons per acre . 
In the summer of 1960 the oxidation pond became completely septic and emitted obnoxious odors . 
It was possible to maintain aerobic conditions in the pond by regular additions of sodium nitrate until the temperature decreased and the algae population changed from blue-green to green algae . 
The anaerobic conditions in the existing oxidation pond necessitated examination of other methods for supplying additional oxygen than by sodium nitrate . 
At the same time further expansion in the Red Bridge Subdivision required the construction of additional sewage treatment facilities . 
The large land areas required for oxidation ponds made this type of treatment financially unattractive to the developer . 
It was proposed that aerated lagoons be used to eliminate the problem at the existing oxidation ponds and to provide the necessary treatment for the additional development . 
Pilot lagoon The lack of adequate data on the aerated lagoon system prompted the developer to construct an aerated lagoon pilot plant to determine its feasibility for treating domestic sewage . 
The pilot plant was a circular lagoon 81 ft in diam at the surface and 65 ft in diam at the bottom , 4 ft below the surface , with a volume of 121,000 Aj . 
The side slopes were coated with fiberglas matting coated with asphalt to prevent erosion . 
The pilot lagoon was located as shown in Figure 1 to serve the area just south of the existing housing area . 
The major contributor was a shopping center with houses being added to the system as the subdivision developed . 
The pilot lagoon was designed to handle the wastes from 314 persons with a 4-day aeration period . 
Initially , the wastewater would be entirely from the shopping center with the domestic sewage from the houses increasing over an 18-month period . 
This operation would permit evaluation of the pilot plant , with a slowly increasing load , over a reasonable period of time . 
The pilot plant was equipped with a 3-hp. turbine aerator ( Figure 2 ) . 
The aerator had a variable-speed drive to permit operation through a range of speeds . 
The sewage flow into the treatment plant was metered and continuously recorded on 24-hr. charts . 
The raw sewage was introduced directly under the turbine aerator to insure maximum mixing of the raw sewage with the aeration tank contents . 
The effluent was collected through two pipes and discharged to the Blue River through a surface drainage ditch . 
Analyses Composite samples were collected at weekly intervals . 
The long retention period and the complete mixing concept prevented rapid changes in either the mixed liquor or in the effluent . 
Weekly samples would make any changes more readily discernible than daily samples . 
The composite samples were normally collected over a 6-hr. period , but an occasional 24-hr. composite was made . 
Examination of the operations of the shopping center permitted correlation of the 6-hr. composite samples with 24-hr. operations . 
The data indicated that the organic load during the 6-hr. composites was essentially 50 per cent of the 24-hr. organic load . 
Grab samples were collected from the existing oxidation pond to determine its operating conditions . 
Efforts were made to take the grab samples at random periods so that the mass of data could be treated as a 6-hr. composite sample . 
A single 24-hr. composite sample indicated that the sewage flow pattern and characteristics were typical . 
Pilot plant operations The BOD of the influent to the pilot plant varied between 110 and 710 mg/l with an average of 350 Aj . 
This was equivalent to 240 mg/lBOD on a 24-hr. basis . 
The BOD of the raw sewage was typical of domestic sewage from a subdivision . 
The BOD in the effluent averaged 58 mg/l , a 76-per-cent reduction over the 24-hr. period . 
Examination of the data in Table 1 , shows that a few samples contributed to raising the effluent Aj . 
The periods of high effluent BOD occurred during cold periods when operational problems with the aerator resulted . 
Ice caused the aerator to overload , straining the drive belts . 
The slippage of the drive belts caused the aerator to slow down and reduce oxygen transfer as well as the mixing of the raw sewage . 
The organic loading on the unit averaged 32 lb of BOD/day or about 2 lb BOD/day/1,000 cu ft aeration capacity . 
Needless to say , the organic load was very low on a volumetric basis , but was 270 lb BOD/day/acre on a surface loading basis . 
It seems that the aerated lagoon was a very heavily loaded oxidation pond or a lightly loaded activated sludge system . 
The flow rate remained relatively constant during the winter months as shown in Table 1 . 
With the spring rains the flow rose rapidly due to infiltration in open sewers . 
As construction progresses , the volume of storm drainage will be sharply reduced . 
The retention period in the aerated lagoon ranged from 9.8 to 2.6 days , averaging 6.4 days . 
The large amount of vegetable grindings from the grocery store in the shopping center created a suspended solids problem . 
The vegetables were not readily metabolized by the bacteria in the aeration unit and tended to float on the surface . 
A skimming device at the effluent weir prevented loss of most of these light solids . 
The average volatile suspended solids in the effluent was 75 mg/l while MLSS averaged 170 mg/l volatile suspended solids . 
The average sludge age based on displacement of solids was calculated to be 14.5 days . 
The oxygen uptake rate in the mixed liquor averaged 0.8 mg/l/hr during the first four months of this study . 
Variations in aerator speeds during the latter two months of this study caused increased mixing and increased oxygen demand . 
The increase in oxygen uptake rates from 1.2 to 2.6 mg/l/hr which followed an increase in rotor speed was believed to be related to resuspension of solids which had settled at the lower rotor speeds . 
It appeared that most of the mixed liquor suspended solids were active microbial solids with the heavier , less active solids settling out . 
The suspended solids discharged in the effluent were found to be the major source of the Aj . 
Removal of the suspended solids by a membrane filter yielded an average effluent containing only 20 mg/l Aj . 
The BOD in the drainage ditch receiving the pilot plant effluent averaged 12 Aj . 
This low BOD was due to removal of the excess suspended solids by sedimentation since the only dilution was surface runoff which was very low during this study . 
Microscopic examination Routine microscopic examinations were made of the mixed liquor as indicated by McKinney and Gram for the various types of protozoa . 
It was found that the aerated lagoon was an activated sludge system rather than an oxidation pond . 
At no time were algae found in the mixed liquor . 
The bacteria formed typical activated sludge floc . 
The floc particles were all small as the heavier floc settled out . 
Initially , the flagellated protozoa predominated , but they soon gave way to the free swimming ciliated protozoa . 
As the temperature decreased , the number of free swimming ciliated protozoa decreased . 
Very little protozoa activity existed below 40-degrees-F . 
When the temperature reached 32-degrees-F all protozoan activity ceased ; ; but as the temperature rose , the numbers of protozoa increased rapidly . 
Only once were stalked ciliates found in the mixed liquor . 
The predomination of free swimming ciliated protozoa is indicative of a high bacterial population . 
Oxygen transfer One of the important aspects of this study was to determine the oxygen transfer relationships of the mechanical aerator . 
Routine determinations were made for dissolved oxygen in the mixed liquor and for oxygen uptake rates . 
The data given in Table 2 , show the routine operation of the aerator . 
The dissolved oxygen in the aeration unit was consistently high until January 29 , 1961 . 
An extended cold spell caused ice to build up on the aerator which was mounted on a floating platform and caused the entire platform to sink lower in the water . 
The added resistance to the rotor damaged the drive belts and reduced the oxygen transfer capacity . 
It was approximately one month before the belt problem was noticed and corrected , but at no time was there a deficiency of dissolved oxygen . 
A series of eight special tests were conducted at different rotor speeds to determine the oxygen transfer rate . 
Five of the tests were conducted with a polyethylene cover to simulate an ice cover . 
The rate of oxygen transfer at 1.0-mg. / l. dissolved oxygen concentration and 10-degrees-C for various rotor speeds is given in Table 3 . 
The maximum rate of oxygen transfer at 1.0 mg/l dissolved oxygen was calculated as 220 lb/day at a maximum rate of 9.3 Aj . 
The actual power requirements indicated 2 lb. oxygen transfer / hr. / hp. . 
The polyethylene cover reduced the oxygen transfer rate by 10 per cent , indicating that the maximum oxygen transfer is at the rotor rather than through the surface . 
Oxidation pond During this study septic conditions developed in the oxidation pond in the spring when the ice melted . 
Shortly after this study ended septic conditions resulted which required the addition of sodium nitrate . 
The location of the oxidation pond in a high-value residential area makes odor nuisances a sensitive problem for the developer . 
The organic concentration in the influent raw sewage ranged from 160 to 270 mg/l of BOD with an average of 230 Aj . 
The BOD data are given in Table 4 . 
A single 24-hr. composite sample had a BOD of 260 mg/l , indicating a typical domestic sewage . 
The daily sewage volume to the oxidation pond averaged 147,000 gpd , giving a retention period of 42 days . 
The organic loading on the pond was slightly under 60 lb. BOD / day / acre . 
The effluent BOD averaged 34 mg/l , a little lower than that of the study at Fayette indicated for a loading of 60 lb. Aj . 
The BOD of the effluent ranged from a minimum of 13 to a maximum of 47 mg. / l. . 
Microscopic examination of the effluent showed that minimum BOD occurred when the algae began to decrease with cold weather . 
When the algae began to build up again , the effluent BOD rose . 
During the two weeks when the algae disappeared from the effluent BOD's in the effluent were 18 and 16 Aj . 
Thus , the three main categories of antisubmarine warfare operations are defense of shipping , defense of naval forces , and area defense . 
The last category overlaps the others in amphibious operations and near terminals and bases . 
To effect these operations , five elements exist ( 1 ) surface , ( 2 ) air , ( 3 ) mines , ( 4 ) submarine , and ( 5 ) fixed installations . 
Surface forces have been used to provide defense zones around naval and merchant ship formations , air to furnish area surveillance , and mines for protection of limited areas . 
Submarines and shore installations are new elements . 
The submarine now has a definite place in submarine defense particularly in denying enemy access to ocean areas . 
Fixed installations offer possibilities for area detection . 
Mine warfare is being reoriented against submarine targets . 
A sixth element , not always considered , is intelligence . 
It includes operational intelligence of the enemy and knowledge of the environment . 
Operational intelligence presumably will be available from our national intelligence agencies ; ; intelligence on the environment will come from the recently augmented program in oceanography . 
The major postwar development is the certainty that these elements should not be considered singly but in combination and as being mutually supporting . 
Necessity for an over-all concept Thinking on submarine defense has not always been clear-cut . 
Proponents of single elements tend to ensure predominance of that element without determining if it is justified , and the element with the most enthusiastic and vociferous proponents has assumed the greatest importance . 
Consequently , air , surface , and submarine elements overshadow the mine , fixed installations , and intelligence . 
These have sought more and more of what they have . 
Each seems to strive for elimination of the necessity for the others . 
This , despite postwar experience demonstrating that all elements are necessarily mutually supporting . 
Thus , the most productive areas are not necessarily the most stressed . 
This is stated to emphasize the necessity for an over-all concept of submarine defense , one which would provide positions of relative importance to ASW elements based on projected potentialities . 
Then the enthusiasm and energy of all elements can be channeled to produce cumulative progress toward a common objective . 
An over-all concept would have other advantages . 
It would allow presentation to the public of a unified approach . 
Now the problem is presented piecemeal and sometimes contradictorily . 
While one element is announcing progress , another is delineating its problems . 
The result can only be confusion in the public mind . 
A unified concept can serve as a guide to budgeting and , if public support is gained , will command Congressional support . 
Industry's main criticism of the Navy's antisubmarine effort is that it cannot determine where any one company or industry can apply its skills and know-how . 
Lacking guidance , industry picks its own areas . 
The result , coupled with the salesmanship for which American industry is famous , is considerable expenditure of funds and efforts in marginal areas . 
An over-all concept will guide industry where available talents and facilities will yield greatest dividends . 
Therefore , a broad concept of over-all submarine defense is needed for co-ordination of the Navy's efforts , for a logical presentation to the public , for industry's guidance , and as a basis for a program to the Congress . 
Principles involved in an over-all concept That which follows will be a discussion of principles and possible content for an over-all concept of antisubmarine warfare . 
Russia possesses the preponderance of submarines in the world , divided between her various fleets . 
Some are also in Albania and others are on loan to Egypt . 
Other countries which may willingly or unwillingly become Communist can furnish bases . 
Communist target areas can be assumed , but there is no certainty that such assumptions coincide with Soviet intentions . 
Attack can come from almost any direction against many locations . 
Logically , then , the first principle of the plan must be that it is not rigidly oriented toward any geographical area . 
It is often stated that the submarine can be destroyed while building , at bases , in transit , and on station . 
Destruction of the enemy's building and base complex , however , requires attacks on enemy territory , which is possible only in event of all-out hostilities . 
In transit or on station , it may not be possible to attack the submarines until commission of an overt act . 
The Communists are adept at utilizing hostilities short of general war and will do so whenever it is to their advantage . 
Therefore the second principle of the plan must be that , while providing for all-out hostilities , its effectiveness is not dependent on general war . 
Antisubmarine warfare does not involve clashes between large opposing forces , with the decision a result of a single battle . 
It is a war of attrition , of single actions , of an exchange of losses . 
This exchange must result in our ending up with some effective units . 
Initially , having fewer units of some elements -- especially submarines -- than the opponent , our capabilities need to be sufficiently greater than theirs , so that the exchange will be in our favor . 
Therefore , the third principle of the plan must be that it does not depend for effectiveness on engagement by the same types , unless at an assured favorable exchange rate . 
The submarine has increased its effectiveness by several orders of magnitude since World War 2 . 
Its speed has increased , it operates at increasingly greater depths , its submerged endurance is becoming unlimited , and it will become even more silent . 
The next developments will probably be in weaponry . 
The missile can gradually be expected to replace the torpedo . 
As detection ranges increase , weapons will be developed to attack other submarines and surface craft at these ranges . 
Therefore , the fourth principle of the plan must be that it provide for continuously increasing capabilities in the opponent . 
No element can accomplish the total objective of submarine defense . 
Some elements support the others , but all have limitations . 
Some limitations of one element can be compensated for by a capability of another . 
Elements used in combination will increase the over-all capability more than the sum of the capabilities of the individual elements . 
Therefore , the plan's fifth principle must be that it capitalize on the capabilities of all elements in combination . 
Conceivably the submarine defense problem can be solved by sufficient forces . 
Numbers would be astronomical and current fiscal policies make this an impractical solution . 
Shipbuilding , aircraft procurement , and weapon programs indicate that there will not be enough of anything . 
Therefore , any measures taken in peacetime which will decrease force requirements in war will contribute greatly to success when hostilities occur . 
Therefore , the sixth principle of the plan must be that it concentrate on current measures which will reduce future force requirements . 
The world is constantly changing ; ; what was new yesterday is obsolescent today . 
The seventh principle of the plan is self-evident ; ; it must be flexible enough to allow for technological breakthroughs , scientific progress , and changes in world conditions . 
Supporting elements in asw operations To this point the need for an over-all plan for submarine defense has been demonstrated , the mission has been stated , broad principles delineating its content laid down , and the supporting elements listed . 
Before considering these elements in more detail , an additional requirement should be stated . 
Large area coverage will accomplish all other tasks . 
Therefore , because reduction in tasks results in reduction of forces required , the plan should provide for expanding area coverage . 
But it must be remembered that the plan should not be oriented geographically . 
Consequently , the system giving area coverage ( if such coverage is less than world wide ) must be flexible and hence at least partially mobile . 
Since effective area coverage appears fairly remote , the requirement can be borne in mind while considering the elements : air , surface , sub-surface , fixed installations , mines , and intelligence . 
These are arranged approximately in the order of the vociferousness of their proponents but will be discussed in the reverse order in the hope that the true order of importance will result . 
Intelligence , as used herein , will include information on possible opponents and on the environment which can affect operations . 
These can be referred to as operational intelligence and environmental intelligence . 
In submarine defense these must have maximum stress . 
Good operational intelligence can ensure sound planning , greatly reduce force requirements , and increase tactical effectiveness . 
Environmental intelligence is just as important . 
The ocean presently co-operates with the target . 
Full knowledge of the science of oceanography can bring the environment to our side , resulting in an increase in effectiveness of equipment and tactics , a decrease in enemy capabilities , and the development of methods of capitalizing on the environment . 
Therefore , improved intelligence will result in reduced force requirements and , as it supports all other elements , rates a top priority . 
Gathering intelligence is important , but of equal importance is its translation into usable form . 
A program is needed to translate the results of oceanographic research into tactical and operating instructions . 
Approaching this problem on a statistical basis is invalid , because the opponent has the same sources available and will be encountered not under average conditions , but under the conditions most advantageous to him . 
Therefore , the on-the-scene commander must have detailed operating instructions based on measurement of conditions , in the area , at the time of encounter . 
All capabilities must be used to maximum advantage then . 
Temperature , wind , oxygen content , depth , bottom character , and animal life are the chief environmental variables . 
There may be others . 
Variations in sound velocity should be measured rather than temperature , because more of the variables would be encompassed . 
These variations must eventually be measured horizontally as well as vertically . 
Progress in predicting water conditions is encouraging , but little guidance is available to the man at sea on the use of such information . 
A concurrent effort is needed to make oceanographic data useful on the spot . 
Mine warfare has in the past been directed against surface targets . 
By its nature it has always been of great psychological advantage and small efforts have required considerably greater counter-efforts . 
Mines are being increasingly oriented against submarine targets . 
They are still considered to be for use in restricted waters , however , and targets must come within a few yards of them . 
Mines need to be recognized as a major element in anti-submarine warfare employment , extended to deep water , and have their effective area per unit increased . 
Mines can be used to deny access to great areas ; ; they are difficult to counter , cost little to maintain until required , and can be put into place quickly . 
A most attractive feature is that detection and attack are combined in a single package . 
Effective employment will reduce force requirements . 
For example , effective mine barriers from Florida to Cuba and across the Yucatan Channel from Cuba to Mexico would remove all requirements for harbor defense , inshore patrol , convoy escort , shipping control , and mine defense for the entire Gulf of Mexico . 
More extended systems , covering all passage into the Caribbean , would free the Caribbean and the Gulf of Mexico from the previously listed requirements . 
Systems covering the Gulf of St. Lawrence and possibly the entire coasts of the United States are not impossible . 
Such mine defense systems could permit concentration of mobile forces in the open oceans with consequent increase in the probability of success . 
The advantages inherent in mine warfare justify as great an importance for this element as is accorded any of the other elements . 
Fixed installations are increasingly advocated as the problem of area defense emerges . 
The proponents are scientific and technical men who exercise considerable influence on their military counterparts . 
Systems which detect submarines over wide areas are attractive , although they can be only `` burglar alarms '' . 
Mobile forces are required to localize and attack detected targets , since the systems are not capable of pinpointing a target . 
Such systems are expensive and are oriented geographically . 
In an over-all ASW concept , dependence on and effort expended for such systems should be limited to those with proven capabilities . 
No general installation should be made until a model installation has been proved and its maximum capability determined . 
In addition , proposals for fixed installations should be carefully weighed against a counterpart mobile system . 
Fixed installations will always lack the flexibility that should be inherent in naval systems . 
The submarine has become increasingly attractive as an antisubmarine weapon system . 
It operates in its target's environment , and any advantage gained therefrom by the target is shared by the attacker . 
But the submarine is a weapon of ambush and therefore always in danger of being ambushed . 
Two metabolites ( 1 , and 2 ) ) of p-aminobenzoic acid ( PABA ) which act as cofactors for the hydroxylation of aniline by acid-fast bacteria are biosynthesized from Aj . 
The 7 carbons of PABA are incorporated directly into metabolite 2 ( ( as shown with both ring-labeled and carboxy-labeled Af ) . 
Thirty-five of the 36 carbon atoms arise from Aj . 
All 28 carbons of metabolite 1 ( ( a product of mild acid hydrolysis of 2 ) arise from Aj . 
Metabolite 1 , isolated from the medium , however , showed a lower specific activity , which indicates endogenous synthesis of this metabolite . 
Vigorous acid hydrolysis of metabolite 1 , destroyed the biological activity of the compound and liberated two aryl amines . 
Fragment A has been obtained in crystalline form as a dioxalate salt and free base . 
Preliminary evidence tentatively indicates that the molecule ( metabolite 1 ) ) is cleaved at a secondary amide bond . 
( N. H. Sloane ; ; chemical studies are being pursued with the cooperation of K.G. Untch . 
) studies on esterases -- Research on esterases in mammalian sera was continued . 
One of the most interesting findings was the extreme sensitivity of plasma arylesterases to rare earth ions . 
The inhibition of the enzyme by very low concentrations of lanthanum ion is probably the strongest known biological effect of rare earth salts . 
Various metal ions have been found to protect plasma arylesterase against inactivation by urea and guanidine . 
The effects can be related to the structure of this enzyme . 
The non-identity of serum and red blood cell arylesterase was also established . 
Furthermore , the hydrolysis of paraoxon was studied in mammalian sera , and it was found that it is hydrolyzed by albumin ( or a factor attached to it ) in addition to arylesterase . 
Selective inhibitors can distinguish the two activities . 
Investigations on the acceleration of human plasma cholinesterase were carried further . 
( E. G. Erdos , L. E. Boggs , C. D. Mackey ) biophysical studies on modified fibrous proteins -- Electron-microscopical and physical-chemical methods were used to demonstrate the renaturation of heat-denatured collagen and ribonucleic acid . 
( R. V. Rice ) A method was devised for extracting and purifying soluble earthworm collagen ( EWC ) . 
It was observed that EWC macromolecules are the same diameter ( 15 a. ) but much longer ( up to several microns ) than vertebrate tropocollagen . 
This unusual collagen also was shown to undergo a reversible thermal phase transformation . 
( R. V. Rice , M. D. Maser ) studies on peptides and peptidases -- This investigation involved several aspects . 
Substance Z , an active urinary peptide , was purified by extraction in organic solvents and repeated column chromatography ; ; high-voltage electrophoresis and paper chromatography were used in preliminary structural studies ; ; pharmacological effects in vitro on isolated surviving organs and in vivo on blood pressure were assayed ; ; special equipment required for registering respiration and for recording the contraction of smooth muscles under various conditions was developed by the Instruments Section ( Victor Jackman , W. C. Barnes , J. F. Reiss ) ; ; and enzymes which terminate the action of peptides such as bradykinin and perhaps Substance Z were studied . 
Experiments are in progress to develop ultraviolet spectrophotometric techniques for assaying these enzymes and for studying their sensitivity to metal ions . 
( E. G. Erdos , C. D. Mackey , A. G. Renfrew , W. B. Severs , E. M. Sloane ) seed proteins -- In a physiochemical study of seed proteins , the globulins of the Brazil nut have been investigated . 
In addition to the known principal globulin , excelsin , three other ultracentrifugally distinct components have been observed . 
A water-soluble protein of quite low molecular weight ( ca. 10,000 ) has also been found in this system and partly characterized . 
( E. F. Casassa , H. J. Notarius ) continuum mechanics and viscoelasticity theory of non-newtonian fluids -- On the basis of a differentiability assumption in function space , it is possible to prove that , for materials having the property that the stress is given by a functional of the history of the deformation gradients , the classical theory of infinitesimal viscoelasticity is valid when the deformation has been infinitesimal for all times in the past . 
By strengthening the differentiability assumption , it has been possible to derive second and higher order theories of viscoelasticity . 
In the second-order theory , one of the normal stress differences can be calculated from the first-order stress relaxation function . 
( B. D. Coleman with Walter Noll , Department of Mathematics , Carnegie Institute of Technology ) viscoelastic measurements -- An extensive series of measurements was made on a high-density polyethylene in a torsion pendulum instrument using forced sinusoidal oscillation , free vibration , and creep measurements over the temperature range of Af to 80-degrees-C . 
As many as seven decades of the time scale were thus covered isothermally . 
The simple time-temperature equivalence valid for many amorphous systems did not hold here . 
It was possible , however , to decompose the compliance into a sum of a frequency-independent component and two viscoelastic mechanisms , each compatible with the Boltzmann superposition principle and with a consistent set of time-temperature equivalence factors . 
( Hershel Markovitz , D.J. Plazek , Haruo Nakayasu ) geochemistry trace elements in tektites , meteorites , and related materials -- The results of microanalysis of tektites ( natural glasses of unknown origin ) for gallium and germanium have shown that these glasses are probably produced from terrestrial ( or less likely from lunar ) matter by impact of a celestial body . 
The gallium / germanium ratio is higher than that for ordinary igneous , metamorphic , or sedimentary matter as a result of selective volatilization of the components of the tektite . 
Gallium oxide is less volatile than silica ( the main constituent of tektites ) and germanium oxide is more volatile . 
Australites ( tektites from Australia ) give the appearance of a second melting . 
In conformity with this conclusion a higher trace gallium content was found in the portion ( flange ) that has undergone a second melting . 
The silicate fractions of stony meteorites show gallium / germanium ratios similar to those of tektites because they too have undergone melting at some point in their histories . 
Libyan Desert silica-glass , another natural glass , is composed of nearly pure silica and has the same trace germanium content as sands in the area . 
The gallium content , however , has been enhanced five-fold . 
This glass is probably formed from Libyan Desert sands by comet or stony-meteorite impact . 
Nickel-iron meteorites with sufficient kinetic energy to produce large terrestrial explosion craters may nevertheless melt only small quantities of material . 
Most of the impact energy is spent in crushing and fragmentation . 
When rapid quenching follows melting , impact glasses may result . 
These always contain metallic inclusions . 
Impact glasses not containing elemental nickel-iron may have been produced by stony meteorites or comets . 
No meteorites have ever been recovered from paleoexplosion craters , and recent craters containing impact glass have all been produced by metallic meteorites with the exception of Aouelloul crater , Adrar , Western Sahara Desert . 
This crater contains impact glass with no metallic inclusions and no meteoritic material has been recovered . 
( A. J. Cohen , John Anania ) inorganic chemistry Preparation of a coordination compound is often accomplished by the simple method of reacting a metal salt with a ligand in a suitable solvent such as an alcohol . 
By applying this general principle , a great number of complex compounds of osmium , ruthenium , iridium , and rhenium , with triphenylphosphine , triphenylarsine , and triphenylstibine have been obtained in this laboratory during the past few years . 
( Lauri Vaska , E. M. Sloane , J. W. DiLuzio ) In the absence of direct evidence to the contrary , decomposition of solvent alcohol and coordination of its fragments to the metal were not considered , following the above heretofore-accepted assumption in preparative coordination chemistry . 
Recent work with radiocarbon and deuterated alcohols as solvents , however , has given evidence that metal-hydrido and carbonyl complexes may be readily formed by reaction with alcohol in some of these systems . 
Some of the previously reported compounds have thus been reformulated and a series of new hydrido and carbonyl compounds discovered , the more representative examples being Af , Af , Af , Af and Af ( Af ) . 
The coordination complexes formed by transition metals with primary and secondary phosphines and arsines are being investigated ( R. G. Hayter ) . 
Particular interest is directed towards the condensation of these ligands with metal halides to form substituted phosphide or arside complexes . 
During the past year , these ligands have yielded some unusual five-coordinate complexes of nickel ( 2 ) and some interesting binuclear phosphorus-bridged complexes of palladium ( 2 ) ( see figure ) , as well as new compounds of the well-known type Af . 
The structures , properties , and reactions of these compounds are being studied . 
In another study chromium-substituted aluminum oxyhydroxides and related species , prepared homogeneously by high-temperature hydrolysis , are being characterized and investigated spectrally in the ultraviolet region with a view to identification and semiquantitative estimation of the phases formed under varying preparative conditions . 
( J. A. Laswick , N. L. Heatwole ) structure and properties of macromolecules elasticity of macromolecular networks -- The theory of elasticity of Gaussian networks has been developed on a more general basis and the equations of state relating variables of pressure , volume , temperature , stress and strain have been precisely formulated . 
Simple elongation has been treated in detail . 
The various stress-temperature coefficients for constancy of volume and strain , constancy of pressure and strain , and constancy of pressure and length have been interrelated . 
The dilation accompanying elongation and the simultaneously developed anisotropy of compressibility have been related to the elongation . 
In continuation of these theoretical studies , a more precise elucidation of the effects of imperfections in network structure is sought . 
( P. J. Flory , C. A. J. Hoeve ) chain conformations of polymeric chains -- Recent theoretical work to calculate the dimensions of polymeric chains by Volkenstein and Lifson has been extended to include more general types of chains . 
The mean-square end-to-end distance of the polyisobutylene chain has been calculated in reasonable agreement with values deduced from viscosity data . 
These studies are being extended to different polymers to increase our knowledge about the hindrances to rotation around chain bonds . 
( C. A. J. Hoeve , A. A. Blumberg ) crystallization in polymers and copolymers -- The crystallization of copolymers comprising Af units interspersed with a minor percentage of Af is limited by the inability of the crystal lattice characteristic of the former to accommodate the bulky side group of the latter . 
Only uninterrupted sequences of the former are eligible for formation of crystallites . 
Limitations on the lengths of these sequences diminish the stability of the comparatively short crystallites which can be formed , and this is reflected in a broadening of the melting range . 
( Robert Chiang , J. B. Jackson , P. J. Flory ) Carefully executed melting studies on this system ( M. J. Richardson ) permit quantitative estimation of the instability engendered by reduced crystallite length . 
The complex morphology of polycrystalline homopolymers is necessarily dependent on the same factor . 
Hence , the present studies offer a possible basis for interpretations in the latter field . 
Contraction of muscle -- Glycerinated muscle , in the presence of the physiological agent ( ATP ) responsible for delivering energy to the mechanochemically active proteins of muscle , has been shown to undergo a contraction which is highly sensitive both to temperature and to solvent composition in mixtures of alcohols and water . 
Experiments carried out over long periods of time in order to allow establishment of a steady state have shown that the onset of contraction and its completion are confined to an interval of several degrees Centigrade and to a concentration range of only several per cent . 
The contraction therefore partakes of the character of a phase transition . 
While ATP appears to be necessary for the occurrence of contraction , its presence and enzymatic hydrolysis of it by the muscle protein myosin are not the only criteria for contraction . 
( C. A. J. Hoeve , P. J. Flory ) anionic Polymerization -- One of the principal aims of anionic polymerization techniques is the synthesis of polymers of extremely narrow molecular weight distribution . 
A simple process for the preparation of nearly monodisperse polystyrene of predictable molecular weight has been developed . 
The preparation of such products is not new , but the systems heretofore employed in polymerizations have commanded considerable experimental skill and starting materials of a high purity . 
In the new process impurities present in the solvent ( benzene ) , the monomer , and in the reaction system which would cause deactivation of propagation centers , are rendered inactive prior to polymerization by gradual addition of initiator , a mixture of butyl-lithium and telomeric styryl-lithium , at a temperature low enough to suppress chain growth . 
Upon completion of the purging step , additional initiator appropriate for the molecular weight of the sample desired is added , and the system is then warmed to the polymerization temperature , at which the reaction is allowed to go to completion . 
The predictability of the molecular weights was found to be within 10% for the polymers prepared , with Af ratios less than 1.1 . 
Contrary to observations with ethers , no apparent change of the reactivity of the chain ends takes place over considerable periods of time in benzene as solvent . 
Organization : In this publication measurements of interfacial angles of crystals are used to classify and identify chemical substances . 
T. V. Barker , who developed the classification-angle system , was about to begin the systematic compilation of the index when he died in 1931 . 
The compilation work was undertaken by a number of interested crystallographers in the Department of Mineralogy of the University Museum at Oxford . 
Since 1948 the working headquarters has been the Department of Geology and Mineralogy . 
Numerous cooperating individuals in Great Britain , Holland , the United States , and Belgium have contributed editorially or by making calculations . 
Great interest and practical help have been given by the Barker Index Committee . 
Financial and material help have come from academic , governmental , and industrial organizations in England and Holland . 
Editors for Volumes 1 , and 2 , were M. W. Porter and the late R. C. Spiller , both of Oxford University . 
A third volume remains to be published . 
Substances : Volume 1 , deals with 2991 compounds belonging to the tetragonal , hexagonal and trigonal , and orthorhombic systems ; ; and Volume 2 , , with about 3500 monoclinic substances . 
Volume 3 , , in preparation , will treat the anorthic compounds described in Groth's Chemische Krystallographie . 
Properties : The Barker system is based on the use of the smallest number of interfacial angles necessary for indexing purposes . 
Other morphological , physical , and optical property values are also given . 
Sources of data : The index is essentially a new treatment of previously compiled morphological data . 
Most of the data used are from Groth's Chemische Krystallographie . 
Criticality : Every calculation has been made independently by two workers and checked by one of the editors . 
Use of nomenclature , symbols , units , physical constants : Accepted crystallographic symbolism has been used ; ; other symbols related to the index necessarily have been introduced . 
Currency : This publication covers the old literature ( Groth ) ; ; there is no mechanism for keeping the volumes up to date . 
Format : The publication form is that of clothbound books . 
The data are presented in lists and tables . 
Part 1 in both volumes is labeled `` Introduction And Tables '' . 
The tables include those for the classification angles , refractive indices , and melting points of the various types of crystals . 
Part 2 of Volume 1 , and Parts 2 and 3 of Volume 2 , contain the crystal descriptions . 
These are grouped into sections according to the crystal system , and within each section compounds are arranged in the same order as in Groth's Chemische Krystallographie . 
An alphabetical list of chemical and mineralogical names with reference numbers enables one to find a particular crystal description . 
References to the data sources are given in the crystal descriptions . 
Publication and distribution : The Barker index is published for the Barker Index Committee by W. Heffer & Sons , Ltd. , 4 Petty Cury , Cambridge , England . 
Volume 1 , containing Parts 1 and 2 was published in 1951 ; ; Volume 2 , , in three parts , in 1956 . 
The two volumes are available from the publisher for $16.80 and $28.00 , respectively . 
2-2 . 
Crystal data organization : The present edition of crystal data was written by J.D.H. Donnay , the Johns Hopkins University , Baltimore , Md. ( Part 2 ) ) and Werner Nowacki , University of Berne , Switzerland ( Part 1 ) ) with the collaboration of Gabrielle Donnay , U. S. Geological Survey , Washington , D. C. . 
Many collaborators in the United States and Switzerland helped in collecting and assembling data , in making calculations , and in editing . 
Support came from academic and industrial groups in these two countries . 
The Geological Society of America gave a grant-in-aid to complete the work and bore the expenses of publication . 
Preparation of a second edition is in progress under the sponsorship of the Crystal Data Committee of the American Crystallographic Association . 
Coeditors are J.D.H. Donnay , G. E. Cox of Leeds University , and Olga Kennard of the National Council for Medical Research , London . 
Financial grants have been received from the National Science Foundation and the ( British ) Institute of Physics for the compilation work and the publication costs . 
The continuity of the project is suggested by plans for an eventual third edition . 
Substances : Elements , alloys , inorganic and organic compounds . 
( Metal data will not be included in the second edition , since these have been collected independently by W. B. Pearson , National Research Council , Ottawa , and published as A handbook of lattice spacings and structures of metals and alloys by Pergamon Press . 
) properties : Crystallographic data resulting mainly from X-ray and electron diffraction measurements are presented . 
Cell dimensions , number of formula units per cell , space group , and specific gravity are given for all substances . 
For some substances , auxiliary properties such as the melting point are given . 
Sources of data : Part 1 , of the present edition covers the literature to mid-1948 ; ; Part 2 , , up to the end of 1951 . 
Much of the material comes directly from secondary sources such as Strukturbericht . 
Criticality : The vast number of compounds to be covered , the limited resources to do the job , and the immediate need for this type of compilation precluded a thorough evaluation of all available data in the present edition . 
Future editions may be more critical . 
Use of nomenclature , symbols , units , physical constants : Since Parts 1 , and 2 , were prepared independently , the abbreviation schemes and the chemical symbols used differ in the two parts . 
The second edition should have greater uniformity . 
Currency : A second edition is in preparation , and there are long range plans for a third . 
Format : Data in the present edition are presented in tables and lists . 
Part 1 , deals with the classification of crystalline substances by space groups and is not a numerical data compilation . 
The compounds are divided according to composition into seven categories . 
Part 2 , contains determinative tables for the identification of crystalline substances . 
These are arranged according to crystal system . 
There are formula and name indexes covering both parts . 
References for Part 1 , are given at the end and for Part 2 , in the tables . 
Publication and distribution : The present edition of crystal data ( Af ) , published in 1954 as Memoir 60 of the Geological Society of America , is now out of print . 
The manuscript of the second edition will probably be ready by the end of 1960 . 
2-3 . 
Crystal Structures organization : The author of Crystal Structures is Ralph W.G. Wyckoff , University of Arizona , Tucson , Arizona . 
The first section of this publication appeared in 1948 and the last supplement in 1960 . 
Though now complete , the publication is included in this directory because of its importance and because of the long-term nature of its preparation . 
Substances : Elements , inorganic and organic compounds ( no alloys ) . 
Properties : The data presented are derived almost entirely from X-ray diffraction measurements and include atomic coordinates , cell dimensions , and atomic and ionic radii . 
Sources of data : Published literature . 
Criticality : The aim was to state the results of all available determinations of atomic positions in crystals . 
Presumably the tabulated data are best available values . 
The critical comments in the textual sections of this publication are invaluable . 
Use of nomenclature , symbols , units , physical constants : The terminology used conforms to that of Internationale Tabellen Zur Bestimmung Von Kristallstrukturen . 
Currency : During the years of publication , supplement and replacement sheets were issued periodically . 
Coverage of the literature extends through 1954 and includes some 1955 references . 
It is to be hoped that some way will be found to keep this important work current . 
Format : The publication form is that of loose-leaf sheets ( Af ) contained in binders . 
The book is divided into chapters and in each chapter the material is grouped into Text , Tables , Illustrations , and Bibliography . 
Each group is paginated separately ; ; numbers sometimes followed by letters are used so that insertions can be made . 
Inorganic structures are found in Chapters 2 - 12 , organic structures in Chapters 13 - 15 . 
Within each chapter an effort has been made to group together those crystals with similar structures . 
There are three indexes , i.e. , an inorganic formula index , a mineralogical name index , and a name index to organic compounds . 
Publication and distribution : Publisher of Crystal Structures is Interscience Publishers , 250 Fifth Avenue , New York 1 , N. Y. . 
The work consists of four sections and 5 supplements . 
Price of the complete work including all necessary binders is $148.50 . 
2-4 . 
Dana's System Of Mineralogy organization : Six editions of James Dwight Dana's System appeared between 1837 and 1892 . 
In 1915 Edward S. Dana , editor of the sixth edition , asked W. E. Ford of Yale University to prepare a seventh edition of his father's work . 
A number of people became involved in the preparation but work was slow until 1937 . 
In that year a grant was obtained from the Penrose Fund of the Geological Society of America to finance additional full-time workers . 
Money was also advanced by the publishers , John Wiley & Sons , Inc. . 
Volume 1 , was completed in 1941 and published in 1944 . 
The editors of this volume and Volume 2 , were the late Charles Palache , Clifford Frondel , and the late Harry Berman , all of Harvard University . 
Work on Volume 2 , was begun in 1941 , interrupted by the war in 1942 , and resumed in 1945 . 
The volume was completed in 1950 and published in 1951 . 
A supplementary grant from the Geological Society of America helped finance its publication . 
Besides the editors there were many contributors in the United States and Great Britain to Volumes 1 , and 2 . 
W. E. Ford , for example , continued to supply data on the occurrence of minerals until his death in 1939 . 
Volume 3 , is nearing completion and there are plans to revise Volume 1 . 
The project is currently supported by Harvard University . 
Substances : minerals . 
Properties : Crystallographic , physical , optical , and chemical properties . 
The crystallographic data given include interaxial angles and unit cell dimensions ; ; the physical property values include hardness , melting point , and specific gravity . 
Sources of data : Almost entirely original articles in journals ; ; abstracts and other compilations on rare occasions when original papers are not available . 
Criticality : All information is carefully appraised and uncertain facts are designated by ( '?' . 
) An authentic diffraction pattern is always obtained and optical properties are frequently checked . 
Use of nomenclature , symbols , units , physical constants : Recommendations of international authorities , such as the International Union of Crystallography , are followed . 
There is a complete synonymy at the beginning of each species description . 
Currency : Currency in the usual sense cannot be maintained in an undertaking of this sort . 
Format : The data are presented in text and tables in bound volumes . 
Volume 1 , of the seventh edition contains an introduction and data for eight classes of minerals ; ; Volume 2 , contains data for forty-two classes . 
References are given at the end of each mineral description and a general index is given at the end of each volume . 
There will be a comprehensive index in Volume 3 , covering all three volumes . 
Publication and distribution : Volume 1 ( ( Af ) of the seventh edition of Dana's System Of Mineralogy was published in 1944 and Volume 2 ( ( Af ) in 1951 by John Wiley & Sons , Inc. , New York , N. Y. . 
( The association of Wiley & Sons with the Dana Mineralogies dates back to 1844 when they published the second edition of the system . 
) The two volumes are available from the publisher for $14.00 and $16.00 , respectively . 
2-5 . 
The Groth Institute organization : `` The Groth Institute '' , which was established in 1958 , is a group activity affiliated with the Physics Department of The Pennsylvania State University , University Park , Pa. . 
Ray Pepinsky is the Director . 
The Institute derives its name from Paul Von Groth's Chemische Krystallographie , a five-volume work which appeared between 1906 and 1919 . 
The resident staff is large and consists of professional assistants , graduate students , abstractors , librarian , technical editor , machine operators , secretarial help , and others . 
There are also corresponding members and outside advisory groups . 
The Air Force Office of Scientific Research has provided financial assistance in the early stages of the Institute's program . 
Substances : All crystalline substances and other solid-state materials . 
Properties : The aim is to collect a very broad range of physical , chemical , morphological , and structural data for crystals on an encyclopedic scale and to seek all possible useful and revealing correlations of properties with internal structure . 
Sources of data : The first stage of operation has centered on the literature imaging of critical or summarizing tabulations such as the Barker Index . 
Coverage of primary literature will follow . 
Unpublished data will be available to the Groth institute from cooperating groups and individuals . 
Criticality : Critical evaluation of all data compiled is not a primary aim of this project . 
However , the proposed correlation of the many interrelated properties of crystals will reveal discrepancies in the recorded data and suggest areas for reinvestigation . 
In addition , the availability of computers will permit recalculation and refinement of much structural information . 
Use of nomenclature , symbols , units , physical constants : For punched-card or tape storage of information all literature values must be conformed to a common language . 
In this way a degree of unification of nomenclature , symbols , and units will be realized . 
Because individual classes of foods differ in their requirements for preservation , a number of methods have been developed over the years involving one or a combination of procedures such as dehydration , fermentation , salting , chemical treatment , canning , refrigeration , and freezing . 
The basic objectives in each instance are to make available supplies of food during the intervals between harvesting or slaughter , to minimize losses resulting from the action of microorganisms and insects , and to make it possible to transport foods from the area of harvest or production to areas of consumption . 
In earlier years , the preservation of food was essentially related to survival . 
In the more sophisticated atmosphere of today's developed nations , food-preservation techniques have sought also to bring variety , peak freshness , and optimum taste and flavor in foods at reasonable cost to the consumer . 
With the development of nuclear technology , isotopic materials , and machine radiation sources in recent years , the possibilities of applying ionizing radiation to the preservation of foods attracted the attention of investigators in the United States and throughout the world . 
An early hope that irradiation might be the ultimate answer to practically all food preservation problems was soon dispelled . 
Interest remained , however , in the possibility that it would serve as a useful supplementary method for counteracting spoilage losses and for preserving some foods at lower over-all costs than freezing , or without employing heat or chemicals with their attendant taste alterations . 
Factors responsible for the spoilage of foods The chief factors responsible for the spoilage of fresh foodstuffs are ( 1 ) microorganisms such as bacteria , molds , and yeasts , ( 2 ) enzymes , ( 3 ) insects , ( 4 ) sprouting , and ( 5 ) chemical reactions . 
Microorganisms are often responsible for the rapid spoilage of foods . 
Of special concern is the growth of bacteria such as Clostridium botulinum which generate poisonous products . 
Enzymatic action in stored food produces changes which can adversely affect the appearance of food or its palatability . 
Spoilage by chemical action results from the reaction of one group of components in the food with others or with its environment , as in corrosion of the walls of metal containers or the reaction of fats with oxygen in the air to produce rancidity . 
Sprouting is a naturally occurring phenomenon in stored potatoes , onions , carrots , beets , and similar root vegetables . 
Insect infestation is a problem of importance chiefly in stored grain . 
The presence of parasitic organisms such as Trichinella spiralis in pork introduces another factor which must be dealt with in food processing . 
To permit the storage of food for long periods of time , a method of preservation must accomplish the destruction of microorganisms and inhibition of enzymatic action . 
The term `` sterilization '' applies to methods involving essentially complete destruction of all microorganisms . 
Food treated in this manner and protected from recontamination by aseptic methods of packaging and containment presumably could be stored for long periods without refrigeration . 
The process of `` pasteurization '' involves milder and less prolonged heat treatment which accomplishes the destruction of most , but not all , of the microorganisms . 
Less severe thermal treatment as by blanching or scalding serves to inactivate enzymes . 
General effects of ionizing radiation Ionizing radiation can cause the destruction of microorganisms and insects involved in food spoilage or , at lower doses , can inhibit their action . 
It furnishes a means of destroying insects in stored grain products as well as certain parasitic organisms present in meats . 
Deactivation of enzymes is also possible , although some types require extremely heavy doses of 10 Mrad or more . 
Because of undesirable flavors , odors , colors , and generally low palatability associated with radiation treatment of this magnitude , the inactivation of enzymes is best accomplished prior to irradiation by the conventional heat-processing methods of blanching . 
Radiation does not retard the chemical spoilage of food . 
It will , however , inhibit the sprouting of potatoes and other root vegetables . 
The radiation doses required for the preservation of foods are in the following ranges : 1 . 
For radiosterilization , to destroy all organisms for long-term preservation -- about 4.5 Mrad for nonacid foods of low salt content . 
2 . 
For radiopasteurization , to partially destroy microorganisms ; ; results vary with types of food , storage conditions , and objectives of treatment -- commonly of the order of 0.2 Mrads but up to about 0.8 Aj . 
3 . 
For destruction of insects -- about 25,000 Aj . 
4 . 
For inhibiting the sprouting of root vegetables -- 4,000 to 10,000 Aj . 
Preserving foods with ionizing radiation leads to some undesirable side effects , particularly at the higher radiation dosages . 
In this respect , the general palatability and individual acceptance of most radiosterilized foods has , to date , been found to be low in comparison with fresh and commercially processed foods . 
A number of foods are quite acceptable as regards taste and palatability , however , at dosages substantially less than sterilization levels . 
Moreover , the nutritive value of irradiated foods apparently undergoes little , if any , change , although some of the fat-soluble vitamins are affected by sterilization doses . 
Radiation sources For irradiation of food , the results obtained depend upon the dose rather than the specific type of radiation , and X-ray , gamma , and high-energy electron radiation are suitable . 
Aside from availability and economic considerations , each has certain practical advantages ; ; for example , gamma rays give deeper penetration but cannot be focused or collimated , whereas unidirectional electron beams may be split and directed to both the top and bottom of the food package to be irradiated . 
Selection of a source for commercial irradiation would involve consideration of numerous factors including required dose rate , load factor , throughput , convenience , safety , and most important , costs . 
Of the potentially useful sources of ionizing radiations , gamma sources , cobalt-60 , cesium-137 , fission products , or a reactor irradiation loop system using a material such as an indium salt have received most attention for food-preservation systems . 
Of the various particle accelerators , the Van De Graff machines , resonant transformers , and linear accelerators are the principal ones available for commercial use . 
Costs of the effective energy produced by these sources is a major obstacle in the development of food-preservation processes . 
Estimated production costs of radiation energy from machine and nuclide sources range from $1 to $10 per Aj . 
Conventional energy for processing foods is available in the range of at most a few cents per kwhr for electric power and the equivalent of a few mills per kwhr for process steam . 
Radiation , therefore , is at an initial cost disadvantage even though only 1 to 10 per cent as much radiation energy as heat energy is required for radiopasteurization or radiosterilization . 
What are the possibilities of lowered radiation production costs for the future ? 
It has been estimated that for applications on a megawatt scale costs might reach values in the neighborhood of 10 cents per kwhr for large-scale accelerators or for gamma radiation generated in a reactor core . 
No comparable reductions in the cost of nuclide radiation are foreseen . 
Such projections , however , appear highly speculative and the capacities involved are far beyond those foreseen for food-preservation facilities . 
Because agricultural activities are seasonal and the areas of production and harvest of many foods are widely scattered geographically , and because of the high cost of transporting bulk food items any substantial distance to a central processing location , the use of large central processing stations , where low-cost radiation facilities approaching the megawatt range might be utilized , is inherently impracticable . 
Present status of irradiation preservation of foods The objective of complete sterilization of foods is to produce a wholesome and palatable product capable of being stored without refrigeration for extended periods of time . 
Chief interest in radiosterilization resides in the military services . 
For them , providing appetizing food under battle or emergency conditions is a paramount consideration . 
They require completely sterile foods capable of being stored without refrigeration , preferably items already cooked and ready to eat . 
High nutritional value , variety , palatability , and appetizing appearance are important for reasons of morale . 
Foods for rear stations , which require cooking , but no refrigeration , are also of interest . 
Of primary interest are meats . 
Radiopasteurization , which produces fewer adverse sensory changes in food products , has potential usefulness in prolonging the keeping qualities of fresh and refrigerated food items . 
Thus , food so processed might reach more remote markets and permit the consumer to enjoy more produce at peak freshness and palatability . 
Commercial interest is chiefly in this type of treatment , as is military interest under peacetime conditions . 
The present status of food preservation by ionizing radiation is discussed by food classes in the following paragraphs . 
Meats The radiation processing of meat has received extensive investigation . 
To date , the one meat showing favorable results at sterilization doses is pork . 
Of particular interest to the military services is the demonstration that roast pork , after radiosterilization , is superior in palatability to available canned pork products . 
Tests with beef have been largely unsuccessful because of the development of off-flavors . 
A prime objective of the Army Quartermaster Corps program is to find the reasons for beef's low palatability and means of overcoming it , since it is a major and desirable dietary item . 
Partly because low-level heat treatment is needed to inactivate enzymes before radiosterilization , treated fresh meats have the appearance of boiled or canned meat . 
Off-flavor is a less severe problem with the radiopasteurization of meats , but problems of commercial acceptability remain . 
Moderate radiation doses of from 100,000 to 200,000 rads can extend the shelf life ( at 35 F ) of fresh beef from 5 days to 5 or 6 weeks . 
However , the problem of consumer acceptability remains . 
The preradiation blanching process discolors the treated beef and liquid accumulates in prepackaged cuts . 
Cooked beef irradiated in the absence of oxygen assumes an unnatural pink color . 
When lamb and mutton are irradiated at substerilization doses , the meat becomes dehydrated , the fat becomes chalky , and , again , unnatural changes in color occur . 
Ground meats such as fresh pork sausage and hamburger have a relatively short shelf life under refrigeration , and radiopasteurization might be thought to offer distinctly improved keeping qualities . 
However , a major problem here is one of scale of processing ; ; ground meats are usually prepared from scrap meats at the local level , whereas irradiation at economic volumes of production would require central processing and distribution facilities . 
The problems of color change by blanching and liquid accumulation within the package are the same as for solid cuts . 
Specialty cooked items containing meat portions , as in `` frozen dinners '' might offer a potential use for radiopasteurization . 
The principal potential advantage would be that the finished product could be transported and stored at lower cost under refrigeration instead of being frozen . 
A refrigerated item could also be heated and served in less time than is required for frozen foods of the same type . 
Competitive processes for preserving meats are by canning and freezing . 
Costs of canning meat are in the range of 0.8 to 5 cents per pound ; ; costs of freezing are in the area of 2 to 3.5 cents per pound . 
The table on page 10 shows costs of canning and freezing meat , and estimated costs for irradiation under certain assumed conditions . 
Under the conditions of comparison , it will be noted that : ( 1 ) Radiosterilization ( at 3 Mrad ) is more expensive than canning , particularly for the cesium-137 source . 
( 2 ) Radiopasteurization by either the electron accelerator or cesium-137 source is in the range of freezing costs . 
( 3 ) Irradiation using the nuclide source is more expensive than use of an electron accelerator . 
Poultry Results of irradiation tests with poultry have been quite successful . 
At sterilizing doses , good palatability results , with a minimum of changes in appearance , taste , and odor . 
Radiopasteurization has also been successful , and the shelf life of chicken can be extended to a month or more under refrigerated storage as compared with about 10 days for the untreated product . 
Acceptable taste and odor are retained by the irradiated and refrigerated chicken . 
Acceptance of radiopasteurization is likely to be delayed , however , for two reasons : ( 1 ) the storage life of fresh chicken under refrigeration is becoming a minimal problem because of constantly improved sanitation and distributing practices , and ( 2 ) treatment by antibiotics , a measure already approved by the Federal Food and Drug Administration , serves to extend the storage life of chicken at a low cost of about 0.5 cents per pound . 
Seafood Fresh seafood products are extremely perishable . 
Although refrigeration has served to extend the storage life of these products , substantially increased consumption might be possible if areas remote from the seacoast could be served adequately . 
Furthermore , it has made an exact assessment of the removal mechanisms possible . 
The instrument is shown in Fig. 1 and consists essentially of a hard , sharp , tungsten carbide knife which is pushed along the substrate to remove the coating . 
The force required to accomplish removal is plotted , by means of an electronic recorder , against distance of removal . 
Since the removal force is a function of coating thickness , a differential transformer pickup has been incorporated into the instrument to accurately measure film thickness . 
This , too , is recorded against distance by a repeat run over the same track previously cut . 
A number of adjustment features are included in the Hesiometer to facilitate measurement and permit ready removal of coatings deposited on such substrates as iron and other metals , glass , wood , and plastic surfaces . 
The measurement of topcoats on primers can also readily be carried out . 
Hesiometer results have been found to compare excellently with manual knife scratching tests . 
The instrumental method , however , is about 100 times more sensitive and yields numerical results which can be accurately repeated at will over a period of time . 
If a wedge-shaped coating of increasing thickness is removed from a substrate by an instrument like the Hesiometer with a knife of constant rake angle , a number of removal mechanisms are often observed which depend upon the thickness of the coating . 
At low thicknesses a cutting ( or shearing ) phenomenon is often encountered . 
As the coating becomes thicker , the cutting may abruptly change to a cracking type of failure . 
If the coating becomes still thicker , a peeling type failure finally can occur . 
The typical appearance of these various mechanisms is illustrated in Figs. 2 , 3 , and 4 , which are single frame enlargements of high speed movies taken during the course of the knife removal process . 
It can be seen from Fig. 2 that the cutting removal of a coating from its substrate involves pure cohesive failure of the coating . 
The molecular forces holding the coating to the substrate are obviously greater than the cohesive strength of the coating and failure occurs by shear along a plane starting at the tip of the knife and extending to the coating surface . 
The pictures of Figs. 3 and 4 show the cracking and peeling types of removal where the coating is detached by failure in a region at , or close to , the interface between coating and substrate . 
If the force required to remove the coatings is plotted against film thickness , a graph as illustrated schematically in Fig. 5 may characteristically result . 
Here , H is the coatings removal force measured parallel to the surface of the substrate and T is the film thickness . 
It can be seen that the force is characteristic of the removal process and changes abruptly from cutting to cracking to peeling removal . 
Also , it can be readily seen that the cutting and peeling types of failure show a steady state response , while the cracking mechanism is of a dynamic nature . 
It should be recalled that these three mechanisms can occur on the same coating deposited upon the same substrate merely as a function of changes in coatings thickness . 
Presumably the interfacial bond strength and gross cohesive properties are identical in each case . 
What then , are the factors that contribute to these phenomena ? 
Why should the `` practical adhesion '' of a coating as assessed by a knife method change , initially increasing rather rapidly and then decreasing stepwise to very low values as the knife is forced through a coating of increasing thickness ? 
Cutting mechanism of cohesive failure The cutting ( or shearing ) removal process has been previously described . 
It was found that the coating is separated from its substrate entirely by cohesive failure . 
The details of the removal process are shown schematically in Fig. 6 . 
The various forces result from the reaction of the removed paint chip against the face of the knife and along the shear plane , which makes an angle **yf with the substrate . 
The action and reaction forces are R and Af , respectively , and are equal and opposite in direction . 
All the other force vectors are derived from these . 
Af is the force required to cut a coating of thickness T from the substrate . 
Af is the shear force along the shear plane ; ; Af and Af are the thrust forces acting against coating and knife , respectively ; ; Af is the normal compressive force acting on the shear plane ; ; Af is the friction force between chip and knife surfaces , and P is the normal force acting on the face of the knife . 
**yc is the rake angle of the knife ; ; **yf is the angle the shear plane makes with the substrate ; ; **yt is the friction angle ; ; and **yb is the angle the resultants make with the plane of the substrate . 
An analysis of the vector relationships shows that the rake angle **yc and the friction angle **yt determine the vector direction Af of the force resultants R and Af . 
Consequently , both the rake angle of the knife as well as the friction occurring between the back of the removed coating and the front of the knife will determine in large part the detailed mechanism of the cutting removal process . 
It is difficult to measure the direction and magnitude of R directly . 
In actual practice , the values most readily amenable to measurement are the cutting force Af and the shear angle Aj . 
These two values and the rake angle **yc are sufficient to determine the other parameters of these relationships . 
**yc is defined by the geometry of the knife ; ; **yf can readily be determined by measuring the thickness of the coating before and after cutting from the substrate ; ; Af is instrumentally determined . 
From Fig. 6 the relationship between these parameters can readily be derived and the cutting force is Af where **yl is the shear strength of the coating and is a parameter of the coatings material , W is the width of the removed coating and T is its thickness . 
If the cutting force , Af , is plotted against film thickness , a straight line should result passing through the origin and having slope Af . 
However , in the actual assessment of the cutting force by instrumental methods for any thickness of coating a number of spurious effects occur which must be taken into account and which make the measured value larger than the true cutting force indicated by eqn. ( 1 ) . 
Blunt knife One of these is the fact that the knife employed , no matter how well sharpened , will have a slightly rounded cutting edge . 
This signifies that **yc , the rake angle , is no longer a constant to zero film thickness . 
The curvature of this bluntness is , in the case of the Carboloy knife employed in the Hesiometer , determined by the grain sizes of the polished grit and the tungsten carbide crystals cemented together in the knife body and is in the order of 0.1 to 0.2 mil. . 
The force vector concept of Fig. 6 can readily be applied to this condition also . 
Because the rake angle Af at the tip of the knife is very much smaller ( or even negative ) when compared to the value of **yc for the major portion of the knife , a very rapid increase in cutting force with thickness will result . 
This reduces to the relationship : Af , where Af is the intercept at zero thickness of the extrapolation of the slope indicated in eqn. ( 1 ) , Af is the thickness of the coating equivalent to the rounding off of the knife tip , Af is a straight line first approximation of this roundness , and the other symbols are equivalent to those of eqn. ( 1 ) . 
It can be seen that Af is a constant , and is determined for the most part by the geometry of the knife . 
The blunter the knife , the higher is the value of Af . 
The importance of a hard , abrasion-resistant knife material like the Carboloy employed in the Hesiometer immediately becomes apparent . 
Softer knives would blunt very rapidly , making the value of Af inexact . 
In extreme cases of very soft knives this value may even change during the course of a measurement . 
Knife friction A second factor which enters into the practical measurement of the instrumentally determined cutting force is the frictional resistance caused by the bottom of the knife against the substrate . 
This is not a constant value like Af , but varies with the thickness of the coating and the direction and magnitude of the resultants R and Af of Fig. 6 . 
Under equilibrium conditions of cutting the chip exerts a thrust Af against the knife which tends to push it into the substrate or lift it away from the substrate depending on the vector direction of Af . 
The resultant friction force , Af is thus directly proportional to Af and consequently also to film thickness . 
The value of Af can readily be assessed by determining the frictional force exerted on the knife while running over the previously stripped coating track under various external loadings . 
A straight line relationship is usually observed in a plot of Af against load L , having slope k , and Af . 
Since the load L , under actual cutting conditions is caused by Af , it can be seen that Af . 
The measured force , H , in cutting removal of coatings from their substrates consequently can be seen to be the sum of that force required to cut the coating , Af , that due to the bluntness of the knife , Af , and that due to the friction between the bottom of the knife and the substrate , Af , or Af . 
The first two forces are directly interrelated and depend upon film thickness , whereas Af is independent of these two and is a constant for a given knife/coating combination . 
These theoretical relationships are more clearly illustrated in Fig. 7 and their sum can be seen to correlate in form with practical measurements made with the Hesiometer as illustrated in the first portion of Fig. 5 for the cutting mechanism . 
Chipping mechanism of cohesive failure Although a large number of coatings systems , particularly at low thicknesses fail cohesively by the cutting mechanism , frequently a second type of cohesive failure may also take place . 
This is a chipping , dynamic type failure encountered with very brittle coatings resins or very highly pigmented films . 
This is shown in the photomicrograph of Fig. 8 . 
The basic difference between the continuous cutting mechanism and that of the chipping mechanism is that instead of shear occurring in the coating ahead of the knife continuously without fracture , rupture intermittently occurs along the shear plane . 
The detailed mechanisms of this type of failure have been studied extensively by Merchant for metal cutting , and the principles found can be directly applied to coatings . 
By studying high speed movies made of this type of failure , the sequence of relationships as schematically illustrated in Fig. 9 could be observed . 
In the first picture ( 9a ) the knife is just beginning to advance into the inclined surface which was left from the previous chip formation . 
In the next , the shear plane angle is high , and extends to the inclined work surface . 
With increasing advance of the knife into the coating the shear plane extends to the coatings surface and the shear angle rapidly decreases . 
Eventually , rupture occurs along the shear plane ( 9e ) , and the cycle repeats itself . 
Merchant has found that the same basic relationships which describe the geometry and force systems in the case of the cutting mechanism can also be applied to the discontinuous chip formation provided the proper values of instantaneous shear angle and instantaneous chip thickness or cross-sectional area are used . 
Consequently , if the shear angle **yf is replaced by the rupture angle Af , the relationships as described in eqns. ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) , ( 4 ) , and ( 6 ) will directly apply . 
The cracking mechanism Under equilibrium cutting conditions , the chip exerts a force Af against the coating and an equal opposite force Af against the knife in the plane of the substrate as shown in Fig. 6 . 
If the rake angle **yc of the knife is high enough and the friction angle **yt between the front of the knife and the back of the chip is low enough to give a positive value for Af , the resultant vector R will lie above the plane of the substrate . 
Within only a few years , foamed plastics materials have managed to grow into an integral , and important , phase of the plastics industry -- and the end is still not yet in sight . 
Urethane foam , as only one example , was only introduced commercially in this country in 1955 . 
Yet last year's volume probably topped 100 million lb. and expectations are for a market of 275 million lb. by 1964 . 
Many of the other foamed plastics , particularly the styrenes , show similar growth potential . 
And there are even newer foamed plastics that are yet to be evaluated . 
As this issue goes to press , for example , one manufacturer has announced an epoxy foam with outstanding buoyancy and impact strength ; ; another reports that a cellular polypropylene , primarily for use in wire coating applications , is being investigated . 
On the following pages , each of the major commercial foamed plastics is described in detail , as to properties , applications , and methods of processing . 
It might be well to point out , however , some of the newer developments that have taken place within the past few months which might have a bearing on the future of the various foamed plastics involved . 
In urethane foams , for example , there has been a definite trend toward the polyether-type materials ( which are now available in two-component rigid foam systems ) and the emphasis is definitely on one-shot molding . 
Most manufacturers also seem to be concentrating on formulating fire-resistant or self-extinguishing grades of urethane foam that are aimed specifically at the burgeoning building markets . 
Urethane foam as an insulator is also coming in for a good deal of attention . 
In one outstanding example , Whirlpool Corp. found that by switching to urethane foam insulation , they could increase the storage capacity of gas refrigerators to make them competitive with electric models . 
Much interest has also been expressed in new techniques for processing the urethane foams , including spraying , frothing , and molding ( see article , p. 391 for details ) . 
And in meeting the demands for urethane foam as a garment interlining , new adhesives and new methods of laminating foam to a substrate have been developed . 
New techniques for automatic molding of expandable styrene beads have helped boost that particular material into a number of new consumer applications , including picnic chests , beverage coolers , flower pots , and flotation-type swimming toys . 
Two other end-use areas which contributed to expandable styrene's growth during the year were packaging ( molded inserts replacing complicated cardboard units ) and foamed-core building panels . 
Extruded expandable styrene film or sheet -- claimed to be competitive price-wise with paper -- also showed much potential , particularly for packaging . 
Sandwich panels for building utility shelters that consist of kraft paper skins and rigid styrene foam cores also aroused interest in the construction field . 
In vinyl foam , the big news was the development of techniques for coating fabrics with the material ( for details , see P. 395 ) . 
Better `` hand '' , a more luxurious feel , and better insulating properties were claimed to be the result . 
Several companies also saw possibilities in using the technique for extruding or molding vinyl products with a slight cellular core that would reduce costs yet would not affect physical properties of the end product to any great extent . 
Readers interested in additional information on foams are referred to the Foamed Plastics Chart appearing in the Technical Data section and to the list of references which appears below . 
Urethane foams Since the mid 1950s , when urethane foam first made its appearance in the American market , growth has been little short of fantastic . 
Present estimates are that production topped the 100-million-lb. mark in 1960 ( 85 to 90 million lb. for flexible , 10 or 11 million lb. for rigid ) ; ; by 1965 , production may range from 200 to 350 million lb. for flexible and from 115 to 150 million lb. for rigid . 
The markets that have started to open up for the foam in the past year or so seem to justify the expectations . 
Furniture upholstery , as just one example , can easily take millions of pounds ; ; foamed refrigerator insulation is under intensive evaluation by every major manufacturer ; ; and use of the foam for garment interlining is only now getting off the ground , with volume potential in the offing . 
Basic chemistry Urethane foams are , basically , reaction products of hydroxyl-rich materials and polyisocyanates ( usually tolylene diisocyanate ) . 
Blowing can be either one of two types -- carbon dioxide gas generated by the reaction of water on the polyisocyanate or mechanical blowing through the use of a low-boiling liquid such as a fluorinated hydrocarbon . 
The most important factor in determining what properties the end-product will have is quite naturally the type of hydroxyl-rich compound that is used in its production . 
Originally , the main types used were various compositions of polyesters . 
These are still in wide use today , particularly in semi-rigid formulations , for such applications as cores for sandwich-type structural panels , foamed-in-place insulation , automotive safety padding , arm rests , etc. . 
More recently , polyethers -- again in varied compositions , molecular weights , and branching -- have come into use at first for the flexible foams , just lately for the rigids . 
The polyether glycols are claimed to give flexible urethanes a spring-back action which is much desired in cushioning . 
Although the first polyether foams on the market had to be produced by the two-step prepolymer method , today , thanks to new catalysts , they can be produced by a one-shot technique . 
It is possible that the polyether foams may soon be molded on a production basis in low-cost molds with more intricate contours and with superior properties to latex foam . 
The polyester urethane foam is generally produced with adipic acid polyesters ; ; the polyether group generally consists of foams produced with polypropylene glycol or polypropylene glycol modified with a triol . 
One shot vs. prepolymer In the prepolymer system , the isocyanate and resin are mixed anhydrously and no foaming occurs . 
The foaming can be accomplished at some future time at a different location by the addition of the correct proportion of catalyst in solution . 
In one-shot , the isocyanate , polyester or polyether resin , catalyst , and other additives are mixed directly and a foam is produced immediately . 
Basically , this means that simpler processing equipment ( the mixture has good flowing characteristics ) and less external heat ( the foaming reaction is exothermic and develops internal heat ) are required in one-shot foaming , although , at the same time , the problems of controlling the conditions of one-shot foaming are critical ones . 
Properties Most commercial uses of urethane foams require densities between 2 and 30 lb. / cu. ft. for rigid foams , between 1 and 3 lb. / cu. ft. for flexible foams . 
This latter figure compares with latex foam rubber at an average of 5.5 lb. / cu. ft. in commercial grades . 
Compression strength : Graph in Fig. 1 , p. 392 , indicates how the ratio of compressive strength to density varies as the latter is increased or decreased . 
The single curve line represents a specific formulation in a test example . 
By varying the formula , this curve may be moved forward or backward along the coordinates to produce any desired compression strength / density ratio . 
Thermal conductivity and temperature resistance : In flexible urethane foams , we are referring to the range between the highest and lowest temperatures under which the materials' primary performance remains functionally useful . 
In temperature resistance , this quality is usually related to specific properties , e.g. , flexural , tensile strengths , etc. . 
Thermal conductivity is directly traceable to the material's porous , air-cell construction which effectively traps air or a gas in the maze of minute bubbles which form its composition . 
These air or gas bubbles make highly functional thermal barriers . 
The K factor , a term used to denote the rate of heat transmission through a material ( B.t.u./sq. ft. of material/hr./*0F./in. of thickness ) ranges from 0.24 to 0.28 for flexible urethane foams and from 0.12 to 0.16 for rigid urethane foams , depending upon the formulation , density , cell size , and nature of blowing agents used . 
Table 1 , , p. 394 , shows a comparison of K factor ratings of a number of commercial insulating materials in common use , including two different types of rigid urethane foam . 
Flexural strength : This term refers to the ability of a material to resist bending stress and is determined by measuring the load required to cause failure by bending . 
The higher-density urethane semi-rigid foams usually have stronger flex fatigue resistance , i.e. , the 12 lb. / cu. ft. foam has 8 times the flexural strength of the 3 lb. / cu. ft. density . 
Note that flexural strength is not always improved by simply increasing the density , nor is the change always proportional from one formulation to another . 
Where flexural strength is an important factor , be sure that your urethane foam processor is aware of it . 
Tensile strength : This property refers to the greatest longitudinal stress or tension a material can endure without tearing apart . 
( like compression strength of urethane foams , it has a direct relationship to formulation . 
) Exceptional tensile strength is another of urethane foam's strong features . 
Figure 2 , above , shows the aging properties of urethane foams as determined by the percent of change in tensile strength during exposure to ultra-violet light . 
Processing urethanes There are many ways of producing a foamed urethane product . 
The foam can be made into slab stock and cut to shape , it can be molded , it can be poured-in-place , it can be applied by spray guns , etc. . 
Slab stock is still one of the most important forms of urethane end-product in use today . 
Basically , the foam machines that produce such stock consist of two or more pumping units , a variable mixer , a nozzle carriage assembly , and , in many cases , a conveyor belt to transport and contain the liquid during the reaction process and until it solidifies into foam . 
The ingredients are fed from tanks through a hose and into the mixer at a predetermined rate . 
The mixing head moves back and forth slowly across the width of the receptacle . 
It only takes a few minutes for the foaming action to be completed and after a short cure , the material can be cut into lengths as desired . 
Much has been done in the way of ingenious slitters to fabricate the slab stock into finished products . 
Profile cutting machines are available which can split foam to any desired thickness and produce sine , triangle , trapezoid , and other profiles in variable heights , dimensions , etc. . 
The convoluted sheets can be combined to attain certain cushioning effects mechanically rather than chemically . 
Also available is a slitter which `` peels '' the inside of a folded block of foam and can be used to slit continuous sheets up to 300 yd. in length , down to 1/16 in. thick . 
The low cost and ease of fabrication of the dies for three-dimensional foam cutting plus the wide variety of shapes , dimensions , and contours that can be tailor-made to customer requirements has made the technique useful for producing case liners , materials handling containers , packaging and cushioning devices , and such novelties as soap dishes , toys , head rests , arch supports , and gas pedal covers . 
Molding Although slab stock appeared first , it soon became apparent that for the production of cushions with irregular shapes , crowned contours , or rounded edges , the cutting of slab stock is a wasteful and uneconomical process . 
Only by resorting to molding techniques can the cushion manufacturer hope to compete satisfactorily in the established cushion market . 
The closed molding of flexible urethane foams has been a problem ever since the introduction of the material ( molding in open molds was more feasible ) . 
Satisfactory methods for polyester foams and even prepolymer polyether foams were never fully achieved . 
Closed molding generally resulted in parts weighing more ( because of higher density ) than parts fabricated from free-blown foams . 
This counteracted the gain from having no scrap loss . 
In addition , there were difficulties with the flow and spreading of the foam mixture over the mold surface , trouble with lack of gel strength in the rising foam , and problems of splits . 
The introduction of one-shot polyether foam systems , aided by the development of new catalysts , helped to alleviate some of the problems of closed molding . 
While there are still many bugs to be ironed out , the technique is fast developing . 
Other techniques Simple systems are available that make it possible for urethane foam components to be poured , pumped , etc. , into a void where they foam up to fill the void . 
In a typical application -- the making of rigid urethane foam sandwich panels -- an amount of foam mixture calculated to expand 10 to 20% more than the volume of the panel is poured into the panel void and the top of the panel is locked in place by a jig . 
Temperature of the wash and rinse waters is maintained at 85 - 90-degrees-F ( 29 - 32-degrees-C ) . 
The top rolls are loaded with 40 lbs. . 
Sixty lbs. loading is possible but 40 lbs. is adequate . 
The suds box drain is arranged at the start to deliver into the raised main drain pipe ( thus returning suds to soap box ) and the machine is started . 
The 160-ml. bath containing the calculated amount of detergent is applied slowly and directly to the running specimen . 
Washing is continued for 30 minutes or for a period of time sufficient to allow 100 nips or passes through the squeeze rolls . 
At the conclusion of the washing , 8 liters of water at 90-degrees-F ( 32*0C. ) are automatically metered from the rinse reservoir to the washing tubs , 4 liters to each tub . 
This operation requires from 10 to 12 minutes . 
During the rinsing operation the volume in the tubs gradually increases until overflow from the main drain begins . 
At this point the drains are readjusted so that the suds box drain will discharge directly into the waste line and the main tub drain is set at the 2-1/2 mark on the drain gauge . 
When all of the rinse water has passed from the reservoir to the tubs the main drains are lowered to permit complete draining of the tubs . 
The run is complete when all the water has drained off into the waste line . 
By this procedure rinsing progresses in two stages , first by dilution until the time when the drains are separated and thereafter by displacement of the soil-bearing liquor by clean rinse water , since soiled liquor squeezed from the specimens at the nip passes directly to waste from the suds box drains . 
This method of rinsing appears to produce maximum cleansing with minimum soil redeposition . 
Suggested evaluation and classification Evaluation may be made on either a soil-removal or a grease-removal basis as desired . 
A reflectance-measuring instrument may be desirable to measure cleaning , whereas Soxhlet extraction is necessary to measure grease removal . 
Purpose and scope This test method is intended for determining the dimensional changes of woven or knitted fabrics , made of fibers other than wool , to be expected when the cloth is subjected to laundering procedures commonly used in the commercial laundry and the home . 
Four washing test procedures are established , varying in severity from very severe to very mild , and are intended to cover the range of practical washing from commercial procedure to hand washing . 
Five drying test procedures are established to cover the range of drying techniques used in the home and commercial laundry . 
Three methods for determining the dimensional restorability characteristics are established for those textiles which require restoration by ironing or wearing after laundering . 
These tests are not accelerated and must be repeated to evaluate dimensional changes after repeated launderings . 
Table 1 , summarizes all of the various washing , drying , and restoration procedures available . 
The person using these tests must determine which combination of procedures is practical for any specific item in order to evaluate the dimensional changes of textile fabrics or garments after laundering procedures commonly used in the home or commercial laundry . 
It is possible to identify the test procedure completely with a code consisting of a Roman Numeral , a letter , and an Arabic number . 
For example Test 3 , E 1 refers to a specimen which has been washed by procedure `` 3 ( '' ( at 160-degrees-F ) for a total of 60 minutes in the machine , has been dried in a tumble dryer by procedure `` E '' and has been subjected to restorative forces on the Tension Presser by procedure `` 1 '' . 
Principle A specimen or garment is washed in a cylindrical reversing wash wheel , dried and subjected to restorative forces where necessary . 
Temperature and time of agitation in the wash wheel are varied to obtain different degrees of severity . 
Drying procedures and application of restorative force procedures are varied to conform with end-use handling during home or commercial laundering . 
Distances marked on the specimen in warp and filling directions ( or wales and courses for knitted fabrics ) are measured before and after laundering . 
Apparatus and materials wash wheel -- cylindrical wash wheel of the reversing type . 
The wheel ( cage ) is 20 to 24 inches inside diameter and 20 to 24 inches inside length . 
There are three fins each approximately three inches wide extending the full length of the inside of the wheel . 
One fin is located every 120-degrees around the inside diameter of the wheel . 
The wash wheel rotates at a speed of 30 revolutions per minute , making five to ten revolutions before reversing . 
The water inlets are large enough to permit filling the wheel to an eight-inch level in less than two minutes , and the outlet is large enough to permit discharge of this same amount of water in less than two minutes . 
The machine is equipped with a pipe for injecting live steam that is capable of raising the temperature of water at an eight-inch level from 110-degrees to 140-degrees-F ( 38*0 to 60*0C. ) in less than two minutes . 
The machine shall contain an opening for the insertion of a thermometer or other equivalent equipment for determining the temperature of the water during the washing and rinsing procedures . 
It is equipped with an outside water gauge that will indicate the level of the water in the wheel . 
A domestic automatic washer that will give equivalent results may be used . 
The wash wheel is the equipment preferred for the test . 
Pressing equipment -- flat-bed press measuring 24 inches by 50 inches or larger . 
Any flat-bed press capable of pressing a specimen 22 inches square may be used as an alternative . 
The flat-bed press is maintained at a temperature not less than 275-degrees-F ( 135*0C. ) . 
Dryer -- dryer of the rotary tumble type , having a cylindrical basket approximately 30 inches in diameter and 24 inches in length and rotating at approximately 35 r.p.m. . 
The dryer is provided with a means of maintaining a drying temperature of 120-degrees - 160-degrees-F ( 49*0 - 71*&0C. ) , measured in the exhaust vent as close as possible to the drying chamber . 
Screen drying racks -- 16-mesh screening ( Saran or Velon ) . 
Drying room -- facilities for drip- or line-drying . 
Extractor -- centrifugal extractor of the laundry-type with a perforated basket , approximately 11 inches deep by 17 inches in diameter , with an operating speed of approximately 1,500 r.p.m. . 
Pen and ink , indelible -- or other suitable marking device . 
measuring scale -- Soap , neutral chip -- fed. Spec. 566 or Aj . 
Softener -- e.g. sodium metaphosphate or sodium hexametaphosphate ( if needed in hard water areas ) . 
Detergent , synthetic -- alkylarysulfonate type . 
Flatiron , electric -- approximately 3 lb. tension presser -- consisting of a padded ironing board from which extend clamping members on all four sides . 
Two of the clamps are fixed to the edges of the board whereas two clamps travel on guide rails opposite the fixed clamps . 
The movable clamps travel on carriages which ride the rails and are drawn by dead-weight loading . 
Sets of weights are provided so that the load can be selected in the range of 1/2 to 4 pounds . 
A perforated aluminum plate , used to provide the drying surface , is heated by means of a flatiron . 
A special template is furnished with the apparatus to enable marking a specimen for a central measuring area and the fabric extensions to the clamps ( see Fig. 2 ) . 
Knit shrinkage gauge -- consisting of a set of 20 mounting pins set in guides in radial slots ( Fig. 1 ) . 
Each pin is individually sprung to a tensioning member which is driven outwardly in the slot . 
The springs have an extension of 1 inch at Af tension . 
The tensioning members have a common drive so that the application of restorative force takes place simultaneously in all directions in the plane of the test specimen . 
The minimum diameter of the pin frame in the collapsed state is 11 inches and the maximum diameter in the freely extended state ( unloaded ) is 14 inches . 
The surface of the apparatus in contact with the test specimen is uncluttered and polished so as to be as friction-free as possible . 
Test specimens The preparation of test specimens will vary depending upon the type of dimensional restorability procedure ( if any ) to be used . 
Three specimens for each sample to be tested are required in order to arrive at a satisfactory average of performance . 
This is especially true for knitted fabrics . 
Specimens are allowed to reach moisture equilibrium with a standard atmosphere of Af and Af and then laid out without tension on a flat , polished surface , care being taken that the fabric is free from wrinkles or creases . 
Fabrics that are badly distorted in their unlaundered state due to faulty finishing may give deceptive dimensional change results when laundered by any procedure . 
This also holds true if restorative forces are applied . 
Therefore , it is recommended that in such cases the sample be replaced , or if used , the results of dimensional change or dimensional restorability tests be considered as indicative only . 
Generally , it is necessary to mark distances on a specimen ( or garment ) in both lengthwise and widthwise directions and to measure before and after laundering . 
The distances may be marked with indelible ink and a fine-point pen , by sewing fine threads into the fabric , or by a specially designed stamping machine . 
The marked distances are parallel to the respective yarns . 
Usually , the greater the original distances marked , the greater will be the accuracy of the test . 
Distances of less than 10 inches are not recommended . 
Woven fabrics to be dried by procedure b ( flat-bed pressed ) or restored by procedure 3 ( hand ironing ) : The specimen of fabric is a rectangle at least 22 by 22 inches , except for cloth narrower than 22 inches , in which case the specimen is the entire width of the fabric . 
Three distances , each at least 18 inches , are measured and marked off parallel to each of the warp and filling directions . 
The distances are at least two inches from any edge of the specimen . 
Woven or warp knitted fabrics to be subjected to restorative procedure 1 ( tension presser ) . 
Each specimen is at least 25 inches by 25 inches . 
Place the template ( Fig. 2 ) on the fabric so that the sides of the 10 inch square cut out of the template are parallel to the warp and filling for woven fabrics , or the wales and courses for knitted fabrics , and so that the same amount of fabric extends beyond the edges of the template on all sides . 
Mark the specimen at the outer edges of the template with pen and indelible ink ; ; also place three dots on the specimen at each side of the 10 inch square , one dot at midpoint , and one at approximately 1/2 inch from each corner . 
Measure and record . 
Circular knitted fabrics to be subjected to restorative procedure 2 , ( knit shrinkage gauge ) . 
Each specimen is approximately 16 inches square . 
The markings consist of a centrally located 10 inch diameter measuring circle and a 14 inch diameter circle of 20 dots equidistantly spaced ( See Figure 1 ) . 
Garments . 
Critical measurements in length and width directions should be taken before and after washing , drying , and restorative procedures . 
Procedure washing -- The washing procedures are summarized in Table 2 . 
Place the specimen in the wash wheel with sufficient other similar fabric to make a dry load of Af pounds . 
Start the wash wheel and note the time . 
Immediately add water at 100 - 105-degrees-F ( 38 - 43*0C. ) to the wheel to a level of Af inches ; ; this level will be increased by condensed steam . 
When this water level has been reached , inject steam into the wheel until the temperature reaches that shown in Column B of Table 2 . 
Add sufficient soap ( and softener if required to counteract hard water ) to furnish a good running suds , or if desired use a synthetic detergent . 
Test 1 , -- Stop the wash wheel at the end of the time shown in Column A of Table 2 , and drain . 
Refill the machine to a level of Af inches with water at 100 - 109-degrees-F ( ( 38 - 43*0 C. ) and start the machine . 
Inject steam , if necessary , to reach the temperature shown in Column D of Table 2 . 
Again stop the machine at the end of the time shown in Column C of Table 2 . 
This procedure is repeated for the second rinse , using the temperatures and time shown in Columns F and E of Table 2 . 
Tests 2 , 3 , , , and 4 . 
-- Run the machine continuously until completion of the test . 
Drain off the soap solution of the suds cycle at such a time that the wheel has become substantially empty of soap and water at the end of the time shown in Column A of Table 2 , , measured from the time the wash wheel was started . 
Refill the machine to a level of Af inches with water at 100 - 109-degrees-F ( 38 - 43*0C. ) . 
When this water level has been reached , inject steam until the temperature is that shown in Column Aj . 
Drain off the water at such a time that the wheel has become substantially empty of water at the end of the sum of the times shown in Columns A and C , measured from the time the wash wheel was started . 
Immediately refill to a level of Af inches with water at 100 - 109-degrees-F ( 38 - 43*0C ) . 
When this water level has been reached inject steam until the temperature is that shown in Column Aj . 
Drain off the water at such a time that the wheel has become substantially empty of water at the end of the sum of the times shown in Columns A , C , and E , measured from the time the wash wheel was started . 
High-gain , photoelectronic image intensification is applied under conditions of low incident light levels whenever the integration time required by a sensor or recording instrument exceeds the limits of practicability . 
Examples of such situations are ( aerial ) night reconnaissance , the recording of radioactive tracers in live body tissues , special radiography in medical or industrial applications , track recording of high energy particles , etc. . 
High-gain photoelectronic image intensification may be achieved by several methods ; ; some of these are listed below : ( A ) Cascading single stages by coupling lens systems , ( B ) Channel-type , secondary emission image intensifier , ( C ) Image intensifier based upon the `` multipactor '' principle , ( D ) Transmission secondary electron multiplication image intensifiers ( TSEM tubes ) , ( E ) Cascading of single stages , enclosed in one common envelope . 
Cascading single stages by coupling lens systems is rather inefficient as the lens systems limit the obtainable gain quite severely . 
Channel-type image intensifiers are capable of achieving high-gain values ; ; they suffer , however , from an inherently low resolution . 
Image intensifiers based upon the multipactor principle appear to hold promise as far as obtainable resolution is concerned . 
However , the unavoidable low-duty cycle restricts the effective gain . 
TSEM tubes have been constructed showing high gain and resolution . 
However , electrostatic focus , important for many applications , has not been realized for these devices . 
Resolution limitations with electrostatic focus might be anticipated due to chromatic aberrations . 
Furthermore , the thin film dynodes appear to have a natural diameter limitation wherever a mesh support cannot be tolerated . 
Cascaded single stages enclosed by a common envelope have been constructed with high gain and high resolution . 
These tubes may differ both in the choice of the electron optical system and in the design of the coupling members . 
The electron optical system may be either a magnetic or electrostatic one . 
The magnification may be smaller , equal , or larger than unity . 
An electrostatic system suffers generally from image plane curvature leading to defocusing in the peripheral image region if a flat viewing screen ( or interstage coupler ) is utilized , while a magnetic system requires accurate adjustment of the solenoid , which is heavy and bulky . 
As it will be discussed later , peripheral defocusing can be improved on by utilizing curved fiber couplers . 
It should be noted , however , that the paraxial resolution is quite similar for both electron optical systems . 
It is felt that fiber-coupled double- ( and multi- ) stage image intensifiers will gain considerable importance in the future . 
Therefore , we shall consider in this paper the theoretical gain and resolution capabilities of such tubes . 
The luminous efficiency and resolution of single stages , fiber couplers , and finally of the composite tube will be computed . 
It will be shown theoretically that the high image intensification obtainable with such a tube and contact photography permits the utilization of extremely low incident light levels . 
The effect of device and quantum noise , associated with such low input levels , will be described . 
After these theoretical considerations , constructional details of a fiber-coupled , double-stage X-ray image intensifier will be discussed . 
Measured performance characteristics for this experimental tube will be listed . 
The conclusion shall be reached that fiber-coupled , double-stage tubes represent a sensible and practical approach to high-gain image intensification . 
Basic design of a fiber-coupled , double-stage image intensifier The tube design which forms the basis of the theoretical discussion shall be described now . 
The electron optical system ( see fig. 14-1 ) is based in principle on the focusing action of concentric spherical cathode and anode surfaces . 
The inner ( anode ) sphere is pierced , elongated into a cup , and terminated by the phosphor screen . 
The photoelectrons emitted from a circular segment of the cathode sphere are focused by the positive lens action of the two concentric spheres , pass through the ( negative ) lens formed by the anode aperture , and impinge upon the cathodoluminescent viewing screen . 
The cylindrical focusing electrode permits adjustment of the positive lens part by varying the focusing potential . 
The anode potential codetermines the gain , G , and magnification , M , of the stage . 
Both the photocathode and the image plane of such an electrode configuration are curved concave as seen from the anode aperture . 
The field-flattening property of the biconcave fiber coupler can be utilized to alleviate the peripheral resolution losses resulting with a flat phosphor-screen or coupling member . 
For the same reason , the output fiber plate is planoconcave , its exposed flat side permitting contact photography if a permanent record is desired . 
As it will be shown later , the field-flattening properties of the interstage and output fiber coupler comprise indeed the main advantage of such a design . 
The second photocathode and both phosphor surfaces are deposited on the fiber plate substrates . 
The photocathode sensitivities S , phosphor efficiencies P , and anode potentials V of the individual stages shall be distinguished by means of subscripts 1 , and 2 , in the text , where required . 
Both stages are assumed to have unity magnification . 
Theoretical discussion of flux gain flux gain of a single stage The luminous gain of a single stage with Af ( flux gain ) is , to a first approximation , given by the product of the photocathode sensitivity S ( amp / lumen ) , the anode potential V ( volts ) , and the phosphor conversion efficiency P ( lumen/watt ) . 
In general , P is a function of V and the current density , but it shall here be assumed as a constant . 
The luminous efficiency Af of a photocathode depends on the maximum radiant sensitivity Af and on the spectral distribution of the incident light Af by the relation : Af where Af is normalized radiant photocathode sensitivity . 
Af is standard visibility function . 
The luminous flux gain of a single stage is given by : Af . 
If the input light distribution falls beyond the visible range , Af as expected , since Af . 
Such cases are not considered here . 
Efficiency of fiber couplers The efficiency of fiber optics plates depends on four factors : ( A ) numerical aperture ( N.A. ) ; ; ( B ) end ( Fresnel reflection ) losses ( R ) ; ; ( C ) internal losses ( I.L. ) ; ; ( D ) packing efficiency ( F.R. ) . 
The numerical aperture of the fibers is given by : Af where Af . 
The angle Af is measured in the medium of index Af . 
Settled phosphors , as generally used in image intensifiers , have low optical contact with the substrate surface , hence Af shall be assumed . 
The numerical aperture should be in general close to unity . 
This condition can be satisfied , e.g. , with Af and Af or equivalent glass combinations . 
A sufficiently good approximation for determining the end reflection losses R can be obtained from the angle independent Fresnel formula : Af . 
For phosphor to fiber and fiber to air surfaces , and assuming Af , we obtain Af percent . 
This value may be reduced to 4.6 percent by means of a ( very thin ) glass layer of index 1.5 . 
Hence , the Af factor for the output fiber coupler is Af . 
As the index of refraction of photosensitive surfaces of the SbCs-type lies around 2 , the Fresnel losses at the fiber-photocathode interface are about 0.5 percent and the Af factor for the interstage coupler is 0.95 . 
It might be anticipated that multiple coatings will reduce end reflection losses even further . 
The internal losses are due to absorption and the small but finite losses suffered in the numerous internal reflections due to deviations from the prescribed , cylindrical fiber cross-section and minute imperfections of the core-jacket interface . 
These losses depend on fiber diameter and length , absorption coefficient , the mean value of the loss per internal reflection and last , but not least , on the angular distribution of the incident light . 
Explicit expressions ( integral averages ) are given in the literature . 
Lacking reliable data for some of the variables , we are relying on experimental data of about 20 percent internal losses for 1/4-inch long , small ( 5 - 10 M ) diameter fibers . 
This relatively high value is probably due to the small fiber diameters increasing the number of internal reflections . 
Since we are considering here relatively small diameter ( 1 - 1.5 inches ) fiber plates , their average thickness can be kept below 1/4 inch and their internal losses may be assumed as 15 percent ( per plate ) . 
The packing efficiency , F.R. , of fiber plates did not receive much attention in the literature , probably as it is high for the larger fibers generally used , until rather recently . 
For circular fibers in a closely packed hexagonal array , the packing efficiency is given by : Af where Af , and 0.906 is the ratio of the area of a circle to that of the circumscribed hexagon . 
For the small diameter fibers now technically feasible and required for about 100 Af resolution , Af . 
The cladding thickness is about 0.5 M , hence , Af and Af . 
Thus , the efficiency **yt couplers is given by -- Af or approximately 50 percent each . 
It must be remembered that the fiber plates replace a glass window and a ( mica ) membrane , in addition to an optical output lens system . 
The efficiency Af of an Af lens at the magnification Af is : Af . 
Neglecting absorption , the end losses of the coupling membrane and the output window Af would be 6 percent and 8 percent . 
Thus , the combined efficiency of the elements replaced by the two fiber plates ( with a combined efficiency of 0.25 ) is 0.043 or about six times less than that of the two fiber plates . 
Gain of fiber coupled image intensifiers Including the brightness gain Af due to the Af area demagnification , the overall gain of a fiber coupled double stage image intensifier is : Af . 
It is obvious that the careful choice of photocathode which maximizes Af for a given input E ( in the case of the second stage , for the first phosphor screen emission ) is very important . 
The same consideration should govern the choice of the second-stage phosphor screen for matching with the spectral sensitivity of the ultimate sensor ( e.g. , photographic emulsion ) . 
We have evaluated the `` matching integrals '' for two types of photocathodes ( S-11 and S-20 ) and three types of light input . 
The input light distributions considered are P-11 and P-20 phosphor emission and the so-called `` night light '' ( N.L. ) as given by H.W. Babcock and J. J. Johnson . 
The integrals ( in units ) are listed in table 14-1 , below . 
Theoretical discussion of paraxial device resolution resolution limitations in a single stage The resolution limitations for a single stage are given by the inherent resolution of the electron optical system as well as the resolution capabilities of the cathodoluminescent viewing screen . 
The resolution capabilities of an electrostatic system depend on both the choice of magnification and chromatic aberrations . 
It has been stated previously that a minifying electrostatic system yields a lower resolution than a magnifying system or a system with unity magnification . 
Furthermore , the chromatic aberrations depend on the chosen high voltage . 
In general , a high anode voltage reduces chromatic aberrations and thus increases the obtainable resolution . 
The luminous gain of the discussed tube was calculated from Eq. ( 6 ) for the 16 possible combinations of S-11 and S-20 photocathodes and P-11 and P-20 phosphor screens , for night light and P-20 light input . 
( The P-20 input is of interest because it corresponds roughly to the light emission of conventional X-ray fluorescent screens ) . 
The following efficiencies obtained from JEDEC and RCA specifications were used : Af . 
The following table ( 14-2 ) lists the ( luminous ) gain values computed according to Eq. ( 6 ) with Af . 
The possibility of a space charge blowup of the screen crossover of the elementary electron bundles has been pointed out . 
It is obvious that such an influence can only be expected in the final stage of an image intensifier at rather high output levels . 
Space charge influences will also decrease at increased voltages . 
Electrostatic systems of the pseudo-symmetric type have been tested for resolution capabilities by applying electronography . 
A resolution of 70 - 80 line-pairs per millimeter appears to be feasible . 
The inherent resolution of a cathodoluminescent phosphor screen decreases with increasingly aggregate thickness ( with increasing anode voltage ) , decreases with decreasing porosity ( thus the advantage of cathodophoretic phosphor deposition ) and might be impaired by the normally used aluminum mirror . 
Thus , in general , elementary light optical effects , light scatter , and electron scatter determine the obtainable resolution limit . 
It should be noted that photoluminescence , due to `` Bremsstrahlung '' generated within the viewing screen by electron impact , appears to be important only if anode voltages in excess of 30 KV are utilized . 
It has been stated that settled cathodoluminescent phosphor screens may have a limiting resolution of 60 Af at high voltage values of approximately 20 Aj . 
For the further discussion , we shall thus assume an electron optical resolution of 80 Af and phosphor screen resolution of 60 Af . 
The set of all decisions is called the operating policy or , more simply , the policy . 
An optimal policy is one which in some sense gets the best out of the process as a whole by maximizing the value of the product . 
There are thus three components to an optimal design problem : ( 1 ) The specification of the state of the process stream ; ; ( 2 ) The specification of the operating variables and the transformation they effect ; ; ( 3 ) The specification of the objective function of which the optimization is desired . 
For a chemical process the first of these might involve the concentrations of the different chemical species , and the temperature or pressure of the stream . 
For the second we might have to choose the volume of reactor or amount of cooling to be supplied ; ; the way in which the transformation of state depends on the operating variables for the main types of reactors is discussed in the next chapter . 
The objective function is some measure of the increase in value of the stream by processing ; ; it is the subject of Chapter 4 . 
The essential characteristic of an optimal policy when the state of the stream is transformed in a sequence of stages with no feedback was first isolated by Bellman . 
He recognized that whatever transformation may be effected in the first stage of an R-stage process , the remaining stages must use an optimal Af-stage policy with respect to the state resulting from the first stage , if there is to be any chance of optimizing the complete process . 
Moreover , by systematically varying the operating conditions in the first stage and always using the optimal Af-stage policy for the remaining stages , we shall eventually find the optimal policy for all R stages . 
Proceeding in this way , from one to two and from two to three stages , we may gradually build up the policy for any number . 
At each step of the calculation the operating variables of only one stage need be varied . 
To see how important this economy is , let us suppose that there are M operating variables at each stage and that the state is specified by N variables ; ; then the search for the maximum at any one stage will require a number of operations of order Af ( where a is some number not unreasonably large ) . 
To proceed from one stage to the next a sufficient number of feed states must be investigated to allow for interpolation ; ; this number will be of the order of Af . 
If , however , we are seeking the optimal R-stage policy for a given feed state , only one search for a maximum is required at the final step . 
Thus a number of operations of the order of Af are required . 
If all the operating variables were varied simultaneously , Af operations would be required to do the same job , and as R increases this increases very much more rapidly than the number of operations required by the dynamic program . 
But even more important than this is the fact that the direct search by simultaneously varying all operating conditions has produced only one optimal policy , namely , that for the given feed state and R stages . 
In contrast , the dynamic program produces this policy and a whole family of policies for any smaller number of stages . 
If the problem is enlarged to require a complete coverage of feed states , Af operations are needed by the dynamic program and Af by the direct search . 
But Af is vastly larger than R . 
No optimism is more baseless than that which believes that the high speed of modern digital computers allows for use of the crudest of methods in searching out a result . 
Suppose that Af , and that the average operation requires only Af sec. . 
Then the dynamic program would require about a minute whereas the direct search would take more than three millennia ! 
The principle of optimality thus brings a vital organization into the search for the optimal policy of a multistage decision process . 
Bellman ( 1957 ) has annunciated in the following terms : `` An optimal policy has the property that whatever the initial state and initial decision are , the remaining decisions must constitute an optimal policy with respect to the state resulting from the first decision '' . 
This is the principle which we will invoke in every case to set up a functional equation . 
It appears in a form that is admirably suited to the powers of the digital computer . 
At the same time , every device that can be employed to reduce the number of variables is of the greatest value , and it is one of the attractive features of dynamic programming that room is left for ingenuity in using the special features of the problem to this end . 
2.2 the discrete deterministic process Consider the process illustrated in Fig. 2.1 , consisting of R distinct stages . 
These will be numbered in the direction opposite to the flow of the process stream , so that stage R is the T stage from the end . 
Let the state of the stream leaving stage R be denoted by a vector Af and the operating variables of stage R by Af . 
Thus Af denotes the state of the feed to the R-stage process , and Af the state of the product from the last stage . 
Each stage transforms the state Af of its feed to the state Af in a way that depends on the operating variables Af . 
We write this Af . 
This transformation is uniquely determined by Af and we therefore speak of the process as deterministic . 
In practical situations there will be restrictions on the admissible operating conditions , and we regard the vectors as belonging to a fixed and bounded set S . 
The set of vectors Af constitutes the operating policy or , more briefly , the policy , and a policy is admissible if all the Af belong to S . 
When the policy has been chosen , the state of the product can be obtained from the state of the feed by repeated application of the transformation ( 1 ) ; ; thus Af . 
The objective function , which is to be maximized , is some function , usually piecewise continuous , of the product state . 
Let this be denoted by Af . 
An optimal policy is an admissible policy Af which maximizes the objective function P . 
The policy may not be unique but the maximum value of P certainly is , and once the policy is specified this maximum can be calculated by ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) as a function of the feed state Af . 
Let Af where the maximization is over all admissible policies Af . 
When it is necessary to be specific we say that the optimal policy is an optimal R-stage policy with respect to the feed state Af . 
For any choice of admissible policy Af in the first stage , the state of the stream leaving this stage is given by Af . 
This is the feed state of the subsequent Af stages which , according to the principle of optimality , must use an optimal Af-stage policy with respect to this state . 
This will result in a value Af of the objective function , and when Af is chosen correctly this will give Af , the maximum of the objective function . 
Thus Af where the maximization is over all admissible policies Af , and Af is related to Af by ( 5 ) . 
The sequence of equations ( 6 ) can be solved for Af when Af is known , and clearly Af , the maximization being over all admissible Af . 
The set of equations ( 5 ) , ( 6 ) , and the starting equation ( 7 ) is of a recursive type well suited to programming on the digital computer . 
In finding the optimal R-stage policy from that of Af stages , only the function Af is needed . 
When Af has been found it may be transferred into the storage location of Af and the whole calculation repeated . 
We also see how the results may be presented , although if n , the number of state variables , is large any tabulation will become cumbersome . 
A table or set of tables may be set out as in Table 2.1 . 
To extract the optimal R-stage policy with respect to the feed state Af , we enter section R of this table at the state Af and find immediately from the last column the maximum value of the objective function . 
In the third column is given the optimal policy for stage R , and in the fourth , the resulting state of the stream when this policy is used . 
Since by the principle of optimality the remaining stages use an optimal Af-stage policy with respect to Af , we may enter section Af of the table at this state Af and read off the optimal policy for stage Af and the resulting state Af . 
Proceeding in this way up the table we extract the complete optimal policy and , if it is desired , we can check on Af by evaluating Af at the last stage . 
It may be that the objective function depends not only on Af but also on Af , as when the cost of the operating policy is considered . 
A moment's reflection shows that the above algorithm and presentation work equally well in this case . 
A form of objective function that we shall often have occasion to consider is Af . 
Here P represents the value of the stream in state P and Q the cost of operating the stage with conditions Q . 
Hence P is the increase in value of the stream minus the cost of operation , that is , the net profit . 
If Af denotes the net profit from stage R and Af , then the principle of optimality gives Af . 
This sequence of equations may be started with the remark that with no process Af there is no profit , i.e. , Af . 
2.3 the discrete stochastic process The process in which the outcome of any one stage is known only statistically is also of interest , although for chemical reactor design it is not as important as the deterministic process . 
In this case the stage R operating with conditions Af transforms the state of the stream from Af to Af , but only the probability distribution of Af is known . 
This is specified by a distribution function Af such that the probability that Af lies in some region D of the stage space is Af . 
We cannot now speak of maximizing the value of the objective function , since this function is now known only in a probabilistic sense . 
We can , however , maximize its expected value . 
For a single stage we may define Af where the maximization is by choice of Af . 
We thus have an optimal policy which maximizes the expected value of the objective function for a given Af . 
If we consider a process in which the outcome of one stage is known before passage to the next , then the principle of optimality shows that the policy in subsequent stages should be optimal with respect to the outcome of the first . 
Then Af , the maximization being over all admissible Af and the integration over the whole of stage space . 
The type of presentation of results used in the deterministic process may be used here , except that now the fourth column is redundant . 
The third column gives the optimal policy , but we must wait to see the outcome of stage R and enter the preceding section of the table at this state . 
The discussion of the optimal policy when the outcome of one stage is not known before passing to the next is a very much more difficult matter . 
2.4 the continuous deterministic process In many cases it is not possible to divide the process into a finite number of discrete stages , since the state of the stream is transformed in a continuous manner through the process . 
We replace r , the number of the stage from the end of the process , by t , a continuous variable which measures the `` distance '' of the point considered from the end of the process . 
The word distance is used here in a rather general sense ; ; it may in fact be the time that will elapse before the end of the process . 
If T is the total `` length '' of the process , its feed state may be denoted by a vector p(T) and the product state by p(Q) . 
P denotes the state at any point T and Q the vector of operating variables there . 
A gyro-stabilized platform system , using restrained gyros , is well suited for automatic leveling because of the characteristics of the gyro-platform-servo combination . 
The restrained gyro-stabilized platform with reasonable response characteristics operates with an approximate equation of motion , neglecting transient effects , as follows : Af where U is a torque applied about the output axis of the controlling gyro . 
The platform angle **yf is the angle about which the gyro is controlling . 
This is normally termed the gyro input axis , 90-degrees away from the gyro output or **yj axis . 
The gyro angular momentum is defined by H . 
Thus if the gyro and platform-controller combination maintains the platform with zero angular deviation about the **yf axis , the system can be rotated with an angular velocity Af if a torque is supplied to the gyro output axis Aj . 
It is assumed that the gyros are designed with electrical torquers so that a torque can be applied about their output axes . 
In the system shown in Fig. 7-1 , the accelerometer output is amplified and the resulting voltage is applied to the gyro output-axis torquer . 
This torque causes the entire system to rotate about the **yf axis , since the response to Af . 
If the polarities are correct , the platform rotates in such a direction as to reduce the accelerometer output to zero . 
As the accelerometer output is decreasing , the torque applied to the gyro output axis decreases and , therefore , the rate decreases . 
Finally , when the accelerometer output is zero , the entire system remains stationary , and the platform is , by definition , leveled . 
A mathematical block diagram for the leveling system is shown in Fig. 7-2 . 
The platform is initially off level by the angle Aj . 
The angle generated by the platform servo **yf multiplied by G is the effective acceleration acting on the accelerometer . 
Af is the scale factor of the accelerometer ( Af ) . 
The voltage Af is amplified by Af and applied to the gyro torquer with scale factor Af . 
Finally , the gyro-stabilized platform characteristic is represented by Af . 
The system as indicated in Fig. 7-2 is fundamental and simple because the transient effects of both the platform servo and the accelerometer have been neglected . 
With these factors included , an upper limit is placed on the allowable loop gain by stability considerations . 
In this type of system , a high loop gain is desirable because it provides a fast response time . 
When the frequency response characteristics of practical components are considered , their effect on stability does not present the most serious limit on the system loop gain . 
The time required for the system to reach a level position is approximately inversely proportional to the servo loop gain . 
In addition , the cutoff frequency for input accelerations is approximately proportional to the servo loop gain ; ; i.e. , high loop gain causes the system to respond to horizontal components of accelerations . 
This problem usually determines the lower limit of loop gain rather than response time . 
It must be noticed in Fig. 7-1 that the accelerometer responds to any input acceleration . 
The equation relating input acceleration to output platform angle is Af . 
In practice , the preflight leveling process takes place with the system mounted in the airframe . 
When the system is arranged for automatic leveling , the platform angles respond to any horizontal components of acceleration acting on the accelerometers . 
There are many such components of acceleration present due to the effect of wind gusts , engine noise , turbulence around the vehicle , etc. . 
One of the greatest problems associated with automatic leveling is establishing a true level in the presence of high-level acceleration noise . 
One solution to the problem is to operate with a low loop gain and to include low-pass filters . 
This technique causes the system to respond only to low frequency acceleration components such as the platform tilt . 
Since a lower loop gain and low-pass filtering increases the response time , a practical compromise must be reached . 
One of the most desirable solutions is achieved by the use of a non-linear amplifier for Af . 
The amplifier is designed so that its gain is large for accelerometer signals above a certain threshold level . 
Below this level , the amplifier gain Af is proportional and is of small value , in order to provide adequate noise filtering . 
The effect is that the platform returns from an off-level position at a rapid rate until it is nearly level , at which point the platform is controlled by a proportional servo with low enough frequency response so that the noise has little effect on the leveling process . 
When the system is on automatic leveling , the gyro drift is canceled by the output of the leveling system ( amplifier Af ) . 
The platform actually tilts off level so that the accelerometer output , when amplified by Af , will supply the correct current to the gyro torquer to cancel the gyro drift . 
The amount of platform dip required depends upon the scale factors of the system . 
7-3 . 
Practical leveling considerations . 
The automatic leveling system described in this section is readily adaptable to a gyro-stabilized platform consisting of three integrating gyros . 
The system requires some switching of flight equipment circuits . 
However , the leveling operation can be maintained and controlled remotely with no mechanical or optical contact with the platform . 
This leveling system will hold the platform on-level , automatically , as long as the system is actuated . 
A useful by-product of this system is that the information necessary to set the gyro drift biases is available from the currents necessary to hold the system in level . 
The leveling process can be accomplished manually , and the results are as satisfactory as those obtained with automatic equipment . 
The process consists in turning the platform manually until the outputs of both accelerometers are zero . 
The turning is accomplished by applying voltage to the gyro torquers described above . 
In brief , the human replaces amplifier Af in Figs. 7-1 and 7-2 . 
Manual leveling requires an appropriate display of the accelerometer outputs . 
If high accuracy is required in preflight leveling , it is usually necessary to integrate or doubly integrate the accelerometer outputs ( this also minimizes the noise problem ) . 
With integration , the effect of a small acceleration ( or small platform tilt angle ) can be seen after a time . 
However , skill is required on the part of an operator to level a platform to any degree of accuracy . 
Also , it requires more time as compared to the automatic approach . 
Manual leveling is inconvenient if the platform must be maintained accurately level for any prolonged period of time . 
The operator must continually supply the correct amount of turning current to the gyro torquers so that the effect of gyro drift is canceled . 
This process is especially difficult since gyro drifting is typically random . 
7-4 . 
Platform heading . 
Platform heading consists of orienting the sensitive axis of the accelerometers parallel to the desired coordinate system of the navigator . 
In simpler terms , it amounts to pointing the platform in the proper direction . 
For purely inertial navigators , two techniques are available to accomplish the platform heading : Use of external or surveying equipment to establish proper heading ; ; Use of the characteristics of the platform components for an indication of true heading . 
The choice of the heading technique is dependent upon the accuracy requirements , field conditions , and the time available to accomplish the heading . 
7-5 . 
External determination of heading -- surveying technique . 
With the gyro-stabilized platform leveled , it can be headed in the proper direction by using surveying techniques . 
The platform accelerometers must be slightly modified for this procedure . 
Before the accelerometers are mounted on the platform , the direction of their sensitive axis must be accurately determined . 
A mirror is mounted on each accelerometer so that the plane of the mirror is perpendicular to the sensitive axis of the unit . 
Transit . 
A precision transit is set up so that it is aligned with respect to true north . 
This can be done to a high degree of accuracy by existing surveying techniques . 
With the transit set up , a mirror on one of the accelerometers is sighted and the platform is turned until it is aligned . 
The sighting procedure includes the use of a fixture for the transit to project a beam of light , which is darkened by crossed hairs , on the accelerometer mirror . 
When the platform is aligned , the reflected image of the crossed hairs can be seen exactly superimposed upon the original crossed hairs . 
The images can easily be aligned with a high degree of accuracy . 
The platform is turned as required by supplying currents to the appropriate gyro torquers . 
Although this technique is simple and satisfactory , one practical difficulty does exist : the direction of true north must be known for each launch point . 
However , this difficulty is not too serious if it is realized that a surveying team can establish a true north base line with a few days' work . 
In many installations , the inertial platform is raised off the ground a considerable height when it is mounted in the vehicle before flight . 
With this situation , it is difficult to sight in on the platform with surveying equipment . 
If the platform is not too high off the ground , a transit can be mounted on a stand to raise it up to the platform . 
Obviously , the heading accuracy is lessened by such techniques since errors are introduced because of motion of the stand . 
Autocollimator . 
The transit can be replaced by an autocollimator . 
This instrument provides an electrical signal proportional to the angular deviations of the platform and can be used to automatically hold the platform on true heading . 
The electrical signal from the autocollimator is amplified and supplied to the Z-gyro torquer . 
If the polarity is correct , the platform will turn until the heading error angle is zero . 
Information is also available from this autocollimator system to set the drift bias for the Z-axis gyro . 
If the Z gyro is drifting , a current generated by the autocollimator is delivered to the gyro torquer to cancel the drift . 
If the drift error is systematic , it can be canceled with a bias circuit which can be arranged and adjusted to supply the required compensating current . 
Electrical pickoffs . 
It is possible to locate an angular electrical pickoff , which will indicate the angular deviation between the true heading direction and the platform . 
Essentially , the stator or reference portion of the pickoff is established with respect to the true heading direction , and the platform is turned either manually or automatically until the angular electrical pickoff signal is reduced to zero . 
7-6 . 
Gyrocompass heading . 
Gyrocompass alignment is an automatic heading system which depends upon the characteristic of one gyro to establish true heading . 
For the case of a purely inertial autonavigator consisting of three restrained gyros , a coordinate system is used where the sensitive axis of the X accelerometer is parallel to the east-west direction at the base point , and the Y accelerometer sensitive axis is parallel to the north-south direction at the base point . 
The accelerometers are mounted rigidly on the platform . 
Thus , if one accelerometer is properly aligned , the other is also . 
The input axis of the appropriate gyros are parallel to the sensitive direction of the accelerometers . 
Figure 7-3 shows a platform system with the gyro vectors arranged as described above . 
The platform is leveled and properly headed , so that the X-gyro input axis is parallel to the east-west direction and the Y-gyro input axis is parallel to the north-south direction . 
The input axis of the X gyro , when pointing in the east-west direction , is always perpendicular to the spin axis of earth . 
If the platform is not properly headed , the X-gyro input axis will see a component of the earth's rotation . 
The sensing of this rotation by the X gyro can be utilized to direct the platform into proper heading . 
In Fig. 7-4 , the input axis of the three-axis platform is shown at some point on the earth . 
The point is at a latitude **yl , and the platform is at an error in heading east . 
The earth is spinning at an angular velocity **zq equal to one revolution per 24 hr. . 
When the platform is level , **ye is a rotation about the Z axis of the platform Af . 
Since the earth is rotating and the unleveled gyro-stabilized platform is fixed with respect to a reference in space , an observer on the earth will see the platform rotating ( with respect to the earth ) . 
Thirty-three Scotty did not go back to school . 
His parents talked seriously and lengthily to their own doctor and to a specialist at the University Hospital -- Mr. McKinley was entitled to a discount for members of his family -- and it was decided it would be best for him to take the remainder of the term off , spend a lot of time in bed and , for the rest , do pretty much as he chose -- provided , of course , he chose to do nothing too exciting or too debilitating . 
His teacher and his school principal were conferred with and everyone agreed that , if he kept up with a certain amount of work at home , there was little danger of his losing a term . 
Scotty accepted the decision with indifference and did not enter the arguments . 
He was discharged from the hospital after a two-day checkup and he and his parents had what Mr. McKinley described as a `` celebration lunch '' at the cafeteria on the campus . 
Rachel wore a smart hat and , because she had been warned recently about smoking , puffed at her cigarettes through a long ivory holder stained with lipstick . 
Scotty's father sat sprawled in his chair , angular , alert as a cricket , looking about at the huge stainless-steel appointments of the room with an expression of proprietorship . 
Teachers -- men who wore brown suits and had gray hair and pleasant smiles -- came to their table to talk shop and to be introduced to Scotty and Rachel . 
Rachel was polite , Scotty indifferent . 
They ate the cafeteria food with its orange sauces and Scotty gazed without interest at his food , the teachers , the heroic baronial windows , and the bright ranks of college banners . 
His father tried to make the food a topic . 
`` The blueberry pie is good , Scotty . 
I recommend it '' . 
He looked at his son , his face worried . 
Scotty murmured , `` No , thanks '' , so softly his father had to bend his gaunt height across the table and turn a round brown ear to him . 
Scotty regarded the ear and the grizzled hair around it with a moment of interest . 
He said more loudly , `` I'm full , old Pop '' . 
He had eaten almost nothing on the crested , three-sectioned plate and had drunk about half the milk in its paper container . 
`` He's all right , Craig '' , Rachel said . 
`` I can fix him something later in the afternoon when we get home '' . 
Since his seizure , Scotty had had little appetite ; ; yet his changed appearance , surprisingly , was one of plumpness . 
His face was fuller ; ; his lips and the usually sharp lines of his jaw had become swollen-looking . 
He breathed now with his mouth open , showing a whitely curving section of lower teeth ; ; he kept his eyes , with their puffed blurred lids , always lowered , though not , apparently , focusing . 
Even his neck seemed thicker and , therefore , shorter . 
His hands , which had been as quick as a pair of fluttering birds , were now neither active nor really relaxed . 
They lay on his lap , palms up , stiffly motionless , the tapered fingers a little thick at the joints . 
Altogether he had , since the seizure , the appearance of a boy who overindulged in food and took no exercise . 
He looked lazy , spoiled , a little querulous . 
Rachel had little to say . 
She greeted her husband's colleagues with smiling politeness , offering nothing . 
Mr. McKinley , for all his sprawling and his easy familiarity , was completely alert to his son , eyes always on the still face , jumping to anticipate Scotty's desires . 
It was a strained , silent lunch . 
Rachel said , `` I'd better get him to bed '' . 
The doctors had suggested Scotty remain most of every afternoon in bed until he was stronger . 
Since Mr. McKinley had to give a lecture , Rachel and Scotty drove home alone in the Plymouth . 
They did not speak much . 
Scotty gazed out at ugly gray slums and said softly , `` Look at those stupid kids '' . 
It was a Negro section of peeling row houses , store-front churches and ragged children . 
Rachel had to bend toward Scotty and ask him to repeat . 
He said , `` Nothing '' . 
And then : `` There are lots of kids around here '' . 
Scotty looked at the children , his mouth slightly opened , his eyes dull . 
He felt tired and full and calm . 
Thirty-four the days seemed short , perhaps because his routine was , each day , almost the same . 
He rose late and went down in his bathrobe and slippers to have breakfast either alone or with Rachel . 
Virginia treated him with attention and tried to tempt his appetite with special food : biscuits , cookies , candies -- the result of devoted hours in the tiled kitchen . 
She would hover over him and , looking like her brother , anxiously watch the progress of Scotty's fork or spoon . 
`` You don't eat enough , honey . 
Try to get that down '' . 
Rachel , observing , would say , `` He has to rediscover his own capacity . 
It'll take time '' . 
Virginia and Rachel talked to each other quietly now , as allies who are political rather than natural might in a war atmosphere . 
Both watched Scotty constantly , Rachel without seeming to , Virginia openly , her eyes filled with concern . 
Scotty was neutral . 
He did not resent their supervision or Virginia's sometimes tiring sympathy . 
He ate what he felt like , slept as much or as little as he pleased , and moved about the draughty rooms of the house , when he was not in bed , with slow , dubious steps , like an elderly tourist in a cathedral . 
His energy was gone . 
He was able , now , to sit for hours in a chair in the living room and stare out at the bleak yard without moving . 
His hands lay loosely , yet stiffly -- they were like wax hands : almost lifelike , not quite -- folded in his lap ; ; his mouth hung slightly open . 
When he was asked a question or addressed in such a way that some response was inescapable , he would answer ; ; if , as often happened , he had to repeat because he had spoken too softly , he would repeat his words in the same way , without emphasis or impatience , only a little louder . 
He had not mentioned Kate . 
He had not even thought about her much except once or twice at night in bed when his slowly ranging thoughts would abruptly , almost accidentally , encounter her . 
At these times he felt a kind of pain in his upper chest , but it was an objective pain , in no way different from others in intensity and not different in kind ; ; it was like the bandaged wound on the back of his head which occasionally throbbed ; ; it was merely another part of his weakness . 
He was calm , drugged , and lazy . 
He did not care . 
Rachel mentioned Kate . 
She said , `` I notice the girl from across the street hasn't bothered to phone or visit '' . 
Scotty said , `` That's all right . 
Kate's all right '' . 
He thought about it briefly , then deliberately turned the talk to something else . 
Once , sitting at the front window in his parents' room , he saw Kate come out of her house . 
She was with Elizabeth . 
They were far off and looked tiny . 
The heavy branches in his front yard would hide and then reveal them . 
They turned at the bottom of Kate's steps and moved off in the direction of the park . 
He thought he saw -- it awakened and , for a moment , interested him -- that Elizabeth held a leash in her hand and that a round fuzzy puppy was on the end of the leash . 
Then they disappeared and Scotty got up and went into his own room and got into bed . 
By the time he was under the covers he had forgotten about seeing Kate . 
The doctor , since Scotty was no longer allowed to make his regular trips into town to see him , came often and informally to the house . 
He would sit , slim-waisted and spare , on the edge of Scotty's bed , his legs crossed so elaborately that the crossed foot could tap the floor . 
Scotty did not mind the doctor's unsmiling teasing as he used to . 
`` Husky young man '' , he said with mock distaste . 
`` I imagine you're always battling in school '' . 
`` I don't go to school any more '' . 
`` Pardon '' ? 
The doctor had to bend close to hear ; ; his delicate hand , as veined as a moth's wing , rested absently on Scotty's chest . 
Scotty said the same words more loudly . 
`` Oh . 
Well , we're taking a little vacation , that's all '' . 
He turned unsmilingly to Rachel . 
`` I think by the end of next week he could get out in the air a little . 
He could now but the weakness is very definite ; ; it would exhaust him further and unnecessarily . 
He'll be stronger soon '' . 
His stethoscope was on the table by Scotty's bed and he picked it up and wagged it at Scotty . 
He said fussily , `` Just keep the cap on those strong emotions '' . 
The stethoscope glinted silver in the darkening room . 
`` I'll drop by again in a few days '' . 
Rachel stayed on after the doctor had gone . 
She smoothed the covers on Scotty's bed and picked things up from the floor . 
She did not touch him . 
Scotty watched with disinterest . 
He did not speak . 
He had no desire to . 
She said , `` Do you think you'll miss school '' ? 
He had noticed how formal and irritably exact Rachel had grown . 
He did not care . 
He felt her irritability did not concern him , yet he knew he would not care even if it did . 
He shook his head . 
`` We've had any number of calls about you . 
You could win a popularity contest at that school without any trouble . 
Miss Estherson called twice . 
She wants to pay you a visit . 
She says the children miss you . 
Apparently you were the light of their lives '' . 
Scotty shrugged slightly . 
Rachel came close to the bed , bent as if she would kiss him , then moved away . 
She was frowning . 
`` That doctor annoys me '' . 
She seemed to speak to herself . 
`` Do you suppose his self-consciousness is characteristic of the new Negro professionals or merely of doctors in general '' ? 
She turned to him again . 
`` Well , Mrs. Charles -- Sally -- has phoned too . 
She was very worried '' . 
Rachel's tone was dry . 
`` She didn't really say '' -- She glanced away at the floor , then swooped gracefully and picked up one of Scotty's slippers . 
`` I mean , do you feel like seeing Kate '' ? 
Scotty said , `` I don't know '' . 
It was true . 
He did not . 
There was the slight pain , but it was no different from the throbbing in his head . 
`` Well , there's time , in any case . 
We'll wait till you're stronger and then talk about it '' . 
She put the slipper neatly by its mate at the foot of the bed . 
Scotty said , `` Okay '' . 
This time Rachel kissed him lightly on the forehead . 
Scotty was pleased . 
His father was a constant visitor . 
Scotty would hear the front door in the evening and then his father's deep slow voice ; ; it floated up the stairs . 
`` How's Scotty '' ? 
And Rachel's or Virginia's reply : `` better . 
He's getting plenty of rest '' . 
`` Is his appetite improved '' ? 
Or : `` Does he get exercise '' ? 
The exchange was almost invariable , and Scotty , in his bed , could hear every word of it . 
He never smiled . 
It required an energy he no longer possessed to be satirical about his father . 
His father would come upstairs and stand self-consciously at the foot of the bed and look at his son . 
After a pause , during which he studied Scotty's face as if Scotty were not there and could not study him too , Mr. McKinley would ask the same questions he had asked downstairs . 
Scotty would reply softly and his father , apologetically , would ask him to repeat . 
`` I'm eating more '' , he would say . 
Or : `` I walk around the house a lot '' . 
`` Perhaps you should get out a little '' . 
`` I'm not supposed to yet '' . 
He was not irritated . 
He did not mind the useless , kindly questions . 
He looked at the lined face with vague interest ; ; he felt he was noting it , as if it were something he might think about when he grew stronger . 
Mr. McKinley examined everything with critical care , seeking something material to blame for his son's illness . 
`` Have you got enough blankets '' ? 
And another time , without accusation : `` You never wore that scarf I bought you '' . 
Where their sharp edges seemed restless as sea waves thrusting themselves upward in angry motion , Papa-san sat glacier-like , his smooth solidity , his very immobility defying all the turmoil about him . 
`` Our objective '' , the colonel had said that day of the briefing , `` is Papa-san '' . 
There the objective sat , brooding over all . 
Gouge , burn , blast , insult it as they would , could anyone really take Papa-san ? 
Between the ponderous hulk and himself , in the valley over which Papa-san reigned , men had hidden high explosives , booby traps , and mines . 
The raped valley was a pregnant womb awaiting abortion . 
On the forward slope in front of his own post stretched two rows of barbed wire . 
At the slope's base coils of concertina stretched out of eye range like a wild tangle of children's hoops , stopped simultaneously , weirdly poised as if awaiting the magic of the child's touch to start them all rolling again . 
Closer still , regular barricades of barbed wire hung on timber supports . 
Was it all vain labor ? 
Who would clean up the mess when the war was over ? 
Smiling at his quixotic thoughts , Warren turned back from the opening and lit a cigarette before sitting down . 
Tonight a group of men , tomorrow night he himself , would go out there somewhere and wait . 
If he were to go with White , he would be out there two days , not just listening in the dark at some point between here and Papa-san , but moving ever deeper into enemy land -- behind Papa-san -- itself . 
Was this what he had expected ? 
He hadn't realized that there would be so much time to think , so many lulls . 
Somehow he had forgotten what he must have been told , that combat was an intermittent activity . 
Now he knew that the moment illuminated by the vision on the train would have to be approached . 
It could take place tomorrow night , or it might occur months from now . 
There was just too much time . 
Time to become afraid . 
White's suggestion flattered , but he did not like the identity . 
He did not spill over with hatred for the enemy . 
He hadn't even seen him yet Pressing his cigarette out in the earth , Warren walked to the slit and scanned the jagged hills . 
He saw no life , but still stood there for a time peering at the unlovely hills , his gaze continually returning to Papa-san . 
He had come here in order to test himself . 
While most of his beliefs were still unsettled , he knew that he did not believe in killing . 
Yet , he was here . 
He had come because he could not live out his life feeling that he had been a coward . 
There were ten men on the patrol which Sergeant Prevot led out that next night . 
The beaming ROK was carrying a thirty-caliber machine gun ; ; another man lugged the tripod and a box of ammunition . 
Warren and White each carried , in addition to their own weapons and ammo , a box of ammo for the ROK's machine gun . 
Others carried extra clips for the Browning Automatic Rifle , which was in the hands of a little Mexican named Martinez . 
Prevot had briefed the two new men that afternoon . 
`` We just sit quiet and wait '' , Prevot had said . 
`` Be sure the man nearest you is awake . 
If Joe doesn't show up , we'll all be back here at 0600 hours . 
Otherwise , we hold a reception . 
Then we pull out under our mortar and artillery cover , but nobody pulls out until I say so . 
Remember what I said about going out to get anybody left behind ? 
That still holds . 
We bring back all dead and wounded '' . 
At 2130 hours they had passed through the barbed wire at the point of departure . 
Then began the journey through their own mine fields . 
Mines . 
Ours were kinder than theirs , some said . 
They set bouncing betties to jump and explode at testicle level while we more mercifully had them go off at the head . 
Mines . 
Big ones and little . 
The crude wooden boxes of the enemy , our nicely turned gray metal disks . 
But theirs defied the detectors . 
Mines . 
A foot misplaced , a leg missing . 
Mines . 
All sizes : big ones , some wired to set off a whole field , little ones , hand grenade size . 
Booby traps to fill the head with chunks of metal . 
Warren tried to shake off the jumble of his fears by looking at the sky . 
It was dark . 
Prevot had said that the searchlights would be bounced off the clouds at 2230 hours , `` which gives us time to get settled in position '' . 
Because they were new men and to be sure that they didn't get lost , Prevot had placed Warren and White in the center of the patrol as it filed out . 
His eyes now fixed on White's solid figure , Warren could hear behind him the tread of another . 
He could also hear the stream which he had seen from his position . 
They were going to follow it for part of their journey . 
`` It's safe '' , Prevot had said , `` and it provides cover for our noise '' . 
Soon they were picking their way along the edge of the stream which glowed in the night . 
On their right rose the embankment covered with brush and trees . 
If a branch extended out too far , each man held it back for the next , and if they met a low overhang , each warned the other . 
Thus , stealthily they advanced upstream ; ; then they turned to the right , climbed the embankment , and walked into the valley again . 
There was no cover here , only grass sighing against pant-legs . 
And with each sigh , like a whip in the hand of an expert , the grass stripped something from Warren . 
The gentle whir of each footstep left him more naked than before , until he felt his unprotected flesh tremble , chilled by each new sound . 
The shapes of the men ahead of him lacked solidity , as if the whip had stripped them of their very flesh . 
The dark forms moved like mourners on some nocturnal pilgrimage , their dirge unsung for want of vocal chords . 
The warped , broken trees in the valley assumed wraith-like shapes . 
Clumps of brush that they passed were so many enchained demons straining in anger to tear and gnaw on his bones . 
Looming over all , Papa-san leered down at him , threatening a hundred hidden malevolencies . 
Off in the distance a searchlight flashed on , its beam slashing the sky . 
The sharp ray was absorbed by a cloud , then reflected to the earth in a softer , diffused radiance . 
Somewhere over there another patrol had need of light . 
Warren thought of all the men out that night who , like himself , had left their protective ridge and -- fear working at their guts -- picked their way into the area beyond . 
From the east to the west coast of the Korean peninsula was a strip of land in which fear-filled men were at that same moment furtively crawling through the night , sitting in sweaty anticipation of any movement or sound , or shouting amidst confused rifle flashes and muzzle blasts . 
White's arm went up and Warren raised his own . 
The patrol was stopping . 
Prevot came up `` . 
Take that spot over there '' , he whispered , pointing to a small clump of blackness . 
`` Give me your machine gun ammo '' . 
Warren handed him the metal box and Prevot quietly disappeared down the line . 
Lying in the grass behind the brush clump , Warren looked about . 
The others likewise had hidden themselves in the grass and the brush . 
Over his shoulder he could see Prevot with the machine gun crew . 
Even at this short distance they were only vague shapes , setting up the machine gun on a small knoll so that it could fire above the heads of the rest of the patrol . 
Warren eased his rifle's safety off and gently , slowly sneaked another clip of ammunition from one of the cloth bandoleers that marked the upper part of his body with an Aj . 
This he placed within quick reach . 
The walk and his fears had served to overheat him and his sweaty armpits cooled at the touch of the night air . 
Although the armored vest fitted the upper part of his body snugly , he felt no security . 
Figures seemed to crouch in the surrounding dark ; ; in the distance he saw a band of men who seemed to advance and retreat even as he watched . 
Certain this menace was only imaginary , he yet stared in fascinated horror , his hand sticky against the stock of his weapon . 
He was aware of insistent inner beatings , as if prisoners within sought release from his rigid body . 
Above , the glowing ivory baton of their searchlight pointed at the clouds , diluting the valley's dark to a pallid light . 
Then the figures which held his attention became a group of shattered trees , standing like the grotesques of a medieval damnation scene . 
Even so , he could not ease the tension of his body ; ; the rough surface of the earth itself seemed to resist every attempt on his part to relax . 
Sensing the unseen presence of the other men in the patrol , he felt mutely united to these nine near-strangers sharing this pinpoint of being with him . 
He sensed something precious in the perilous moment , something akin to the knowledge gained on his bicycle trip through the French countryside , a knowledge imprisoned in speechlessness . 
-- In France he had puzzled the meaning of the great stone monuments men had thrown up to the sky , and always as he wandered , he felt a stranger to their exultation . 
They were poems in a strange language , of which he could barely touch a meaning -- enough to make his being ache with the desire for the fullness he sensed there . 
Brittany , that stone-gray mystery through which he traveled for thirty days , sleeping in the barns of farmers or alongside roads , had worked some subtle change in him , he knew , and it was in Brittany that he had met Pierre . 
Pierre had no hands ; ; they had been severed at the wrists . 
With leather cups fitted in his handlebars , he steered his bicycle . 
He and Warren had traveled together for four days . 
They visited the shipyards at Brest and Pierre had to sign the register , vouching for the integrity of the visiting foreigner . 
He took the pen in his stumps and began to write . 
`` Wait ! 
Wait '' ! 
Cried the guard who ran from the hut to shout to other men standing about outside . 
They crowded the small room and peered over one another's shoulders to watch the handless man write his name in the book . 
`` C'est formidable '' , they exclaimed . 
`` Mais , oui . 
C'est merveilleux '' . 
And then the questions came , eager , interested questions , and many compliments on his having overcome his infirmity . 
`` Doesn't it ever bother you '' , Warren had asked , `` to have people always asking you about your hands '' ? 
`` Oh , the French are a very curious people '' , Pierre had laughed . 
`` They are also honest seekers after truth . 
Now the English are painfully silent about my missing hands . 
They refuse to mention or to notice that they are not there . 
The Americans , like yourself , take the fact for granted , try to be helpful , but don't ask questions . 
I'm used to all three , but I think the French have the healthiest attitude '' . 
That was the day that Pierre had told Warren about the Abbey of Solesmes . 
`` You are looking tired and there you can rest . 
It will be good for you . 
I think , too '' , he said , his dark eyes mischievous , `` that you will find there some clue to the secret of the cathedrals about which you have spoken '' . 
Within two weeks Warren was ringing the bell at the abbey gate . 
The monk who opened the door immediately calmed his worries about his reception : `` I speak English '' , the old man said , `` but I do not hear it very well '' . 
He smiled and stuck a large finger with white hairs sprouting on it into his ear as though that might help . 
Smiling at Warren's protestations , the old monk took his grip from him and led him down a corridor to a small parlor . 
`` Will you please wait in here . 
Mickie sat over his second whisky-on-the-rocks in a little bar next to the funeral parlor on Pennsylvania Avenue . 
Al's Little Cafe was small , dark , narrow , and filled with the mingled scent of beer , tobacco smoke , and Italian cooking . 
Hanging over the bar was an oil painting of a nude Al had accepted from a student at the Corcoran Gallery who needed to eat and drink and was broke . 
The nude was small and black-haired and elfin , and was called `` Eloise '' . 
This was one place where Moonan could go for a drink in a back booth without anyone noticing him , or at least coming up and hanging around and wanting to know all the low-down . 
The other patrons were taxi drivers and art students and small shopkeepers . 
The reporters had not yet discovered that this was his hideaway . 
His friend Jane was with him . 
She was wise enough to realize a man could be good company even if he did weigh too much and didn't own the mint . 
She was the widow of a writer who had died in an airplane crash , and Mickie had found her a job as head of the historical section of the Treasury . 
This meant sorting out press clippings and the like . 
Jane sat receptive and interested . 
Mickie had a pleasant glow as he said , `` You see , both of them , I mean the President and Jeff Lawrence , are romantics . 
A romantic is one who thinks the world is divinely inspired and all he has to do is find the right key , and then divine justice and altruism will appear . 
It's like focusing a camera ; ; the distant ship isn't there until you get the focus . 
You know what I'm talking about . 
I'm sure all girls feel this way about men until they live with them . 
`` But when it comes to war , the Colonel knows what it is and Jeff doesn't . 
Mr. Christiansen knows that a soldier will get the Distinguished Service Medal for conduct that would land him in prison for life or the electric chair as a civilian . 
He had a mean , unbroken sheer bastard in his outfit , and someone invented the name Trig for him . 
That's to say , he was trigger happy . 
He'd shoot at anything if it was the rear end of a horse or his own sentry . 
He was a wiry , inscrutable , silent country boy from the red clay of rural Alabama , and he spoke with the broad drawl that others normally make fun of . 
But not in front of Trig . 
I heard of some that tried it back in the States , and he'd knock them clear across the room . 
There'd been a pretty bad incident back at the Marine base . 
A New York kid , a refugee from one of the Harlem gangs , made fun of Trig's accent , and drew a knife . 
Before the fight was over , the Harlem boy had a concussion and Trig was cut up badly . 
They caught Trig stealing liquor from the officers' mess , and he got a couple of girls in trouble . 
The fear of punishment just didn't bother him . 
It wasn't there . 
It was left out of him at birth . 
This is why he made such a magnificent soldier . 
He wasn't troubled with the ordinary , rank-and-file fear that overcomes and paralyzes and sends individual soldiers and whole companies under fire running in panic . 
It just didn't occur to Trig that anything serious would happen to him . 
Do you get the picture of the kind of fellow he was '' ? 
Jane nodded with a pleasant smile . 
`` All right . 
There was a sniper's nest in a mountain cave , and it was picking off our men with devilish accuracy . 
The Colonel ordered that it be wiped out , and I suggested , ' You ask for volunteers , and promise each man on the patrol a quart of whisky , ten dollars and a week-end pass to Davao . 
Trig was one of the five volunteers . 
The patrol snaked around in back of the cave , approached it from above and dropped in suddenly with wild howls . 
You could hear them from our outpost . 
There was a lot of shooting . 
We knew the enemy was subdued , because a flare was fired as the signal . 
So we hurried over . 
Two of our men were killed , a third was wounded . 
Trig and a very black colored boy from Detroit had killed or put out of action ten guerrillas by grenades and hand-to-hand fighting . 
When we got there , Trig and the Negro were quarreling over possession of a gold crucifix around the neck of a wounded Filipino . 
The colored boy had it , and Trig lunged at him with a knife and said , ' Give that to me , you black bastard . 
We don't 'low nigras to walk on the same sidewalk with white men where I come from . 
`` The Negro got a bad slice on his chest from the knife wound '' . 
`` What did the Colonel do about the men '' ? 
Jane asked in her placid , interested way . 
Mickie laughed . 
`` He recommended both of them for the DSM and the Detroit fellow for the Purple Heart , too , for a combat-inflicted wound . 
So you see Mr. Christiansen knows what it's all about . 
But not Jeff Lawrence . 
When he was in the war , he was in Law or Supplies or something like that , and an old buddy of his told me he would come down on Sundays to the Pentagon and read the citations for medals -- just like the one we sent in for Trig -- and go away with a real glow . 
These were heroes nine feet tall to him '' . 
Jefferson Lawrence was alone at the small , perfectly appointed table by the window looking out over the river . 
He had dinner and sat there over his coffee watching the winding pattern of traffic as it crossed the bridge and spread out like a serpent with two heads . 
Beside him was Mrs. Dalloway . 
He thought how this dainty , fragile older woman threading her way through the streets of Westminster on a day in June , enjoying the flowers in the shops , the greetings from old friends , but never really drawing a deep , passionate breath , was so like himself . 
He , and Mrs. Dalloway , too , had never permitted themselves the luxury of joys that dug into the bone marrow of the spirit . 
He had not because he was both poor and ambitious . 
Poverty imposes a kind of chastity on the ambitious . 
They cannot stop to grasp and embrace and sit in the back seat of cars along a dark country lane . 
No , they must look the other way and climb one more painful step up the ladder . 
He made the decision with his eyes open , or so he thought . 
At any cost , he must leave the dreary Pennsylvania mining town where his father was a pharmacist . 
And so he had , so he had . 
At State College , he had no time to walk among the violets on the water's edge . 
From his room he could look out in springtime and see the couples hand in hand walking slowly , deliciously , across the campus , and he could smell the sweet vernal winds . 
He was not stone . 
He was not unmoved . 
He had to teach himself patiently that these traps were not for him . 
He must mentally pull the blinds and close the window , so that all that existed was in the books before him . 
At law school , the same . 
More of this stamping down of human emotion as a young lawyer in New York . 
By the time he was prosperous enough -- his goals were high -- he was bald and afraid of women . 
The only one who would have him was his cripple , the strange unhappy woman who became his wife . 
Perhaps it was right ; ; perhaps it was just . 
He had dared to defy nature , to turn his back to the Lorelei , and he was punished . 
Like Mrs. Dalloway , with her regrets about Peter Walsh , he had his moments of melancholy over a youth too well spent . 
If he had had a son , he would tell him , `` Gather ye rosebuds while ye may This same flower that smiles today tomorrow will be dying '' . 
But then his son could afford it . 
Lawrence was waiting for Bill Boxell . 
The Vice President had called and asked if he could see the Secretary at his home . 
He said the matter was urgent . 
The Secretary was uneasy about the visit . 
He did not like Boxell . 
He suspected something underhanded and furtive about him . 
Lawrence could not put his finger on it precisely , and this worried him . 
When you disliked or distrusted a man , you should have a reason . 
Human nature was not a piece of meat you could tell was bad by its smell . 
Lawrence stared a minute at the lighted ribbon of traffic , hoping that a clue to his dislike of the Vice President would appear . 
It did not . 
Therefore , he decided he was unfair to the young man and should make an effort to understand and sympathize with his point of view . 
A half hour later the Vice President arrived . 
He looked very carefully at every piece of furnishing , as though hoping to store this information carefully in his mind . 
He observed the Florentine vase in the hall , the Renoir painting in the library , as well as the long shelves of well-bound volumes ; ; the pattern of the Oriental rug , the delicate cut-glass chandelier . 
He said to the Secretary , `` I understand you came from a little Pennsylvania town near Wilkes-Barre . 
How did you find out about this '' ? 
He waved his arm around at the furnishings . 
It was not a discourteous question , Lawrence decided . 
This young man had so little time to learn he had to be curious ; ; he had to find out . 
The Secretary did not tell him at what cost , at what loneliness , he learned these things . 
He merely said , `` Any good decorator these days can make you a tasteful home '' . 
The Vice President said , `` If you hear of any names that would fix me cheap in return for advertising they decorated the Vice President's home , let me know . 
I can do business with that kind '' . 
Again , Lawrence thought a little sadly , these were the fees of poverty and ambition . 
Boxell did not have the chance to grow up graciously . 
He had to acquire everything he was going to get in four years . 
They had brandy in the library . 
Boxell looked at Lawrence with a searching glance , the kind that a prosecuting attorney would give a man on trial . 
What are your weaknesses ? 
Where will you break ? 
How best to destroy your peace ? 
The Vice President said with a slight bluster , `` There isn't anyone who loves the President more than I do . 
Old Chris is my ideal . 
At the same time , you have to face facts and realize that a man who's been in the Marine Corps all his life doesn't understand much about politics . 
What does a monk know about sex '' ? 
Lawrence listened with the practiced , deceptive calm of the lawyer , but his face was in the shadow . 
`` So , we have to protect the old man for his own good . 
You see what I mean . 
Congress is full of politicians , and if you want to get along with them , you have to be politic . 
This is why I say we just can't go ahead and disarm the Germans and pull down our own defenses . 
Let me tell you what happened to me today . 
A fellow came up to me , a Senator , I don't have to tell you his name , and he told me , ' I love the President like a brother , but God damn it , he's crucifying me . 
I've got a quarter of a million Germans in my state , and those krautheads tune in on Father Werther every night , and if he tells them to go out and piss in the public square , that's what they do . 
He's telling them now to write letters to their Congressmen opposing the disarmament of Germany . 
And another one comes to me and he says , ' Look here , there's a mill in my state employs five thousand people making uniforms for the Navy . 
The Bishop looked at him coldly and said , `` Take it or leave it '' ! 
Literally , there was nothing else to do . 
He was caught in a machine . 
But Sojourner was not easily excited or upset and said quite calmly : `` Let's go and see what it's like '' . 
Annisberg was about seventy-five miles west of Birmingham , near the Georgia border and on the Tallahoosa River , a small and dirty stream . 
The city was a center of manufacture , especially in textiles , and also because of the beauty of some of its surroundings , a residence for many owners of the great industries in north Alabama . 
But it had , as was usual in southern cities of this sort , a Black Bottom , a low region near the river where the Negroes lived -- servants and laborers huddled together in a region with no sewage save the river , where streets and sidewalks were neglected and where there was much poverty and crime . 
Wilson came by train from Birmingham and looked the city over ; ; the rather pleasant white city was on the hill where the chief stores were . 
Beyond were industries and factories . 
Then they went down to Black Bottom . 
In the midst of this crowded region was the Allen African Methodist Episcopal Church . 
It was an old and dirty wooden structure , sadly in need of repair . 
But it was a landmark . 
It had been there 50 years or more and everybody in town , black and white , knew of it . 
It had just suffered a calamity , the final crisis in a long series of calamities . 
For the old preacher who had been there twenty-five years was dead , and the city mourned him . 
He was a loud-voiced man , once vigorous but for many years now declining in strength and ability . 
He was stern and overbearing with his flock , but obsequious and conciliatory with the whites , especially the rich who partly supported the church . 
The Deacon Board , headed by a black man named Carlson , had practically taken over as the pastor grew old , and had its way with the support of the Amen corner . 
The characteristic thing about this church was its Amen corner and the weekly religious orgy . 
A knot of old worshippers , chiefly women , listened weekly to a sermon . 
It began invariably in low tones , almost conversational , and then gradually worked up to high , shrill appeals to God and man . 
And then the Amen corner took hold , re-enacting a form of group participation in worship that stemmed from years before the Greek chorus , spreading down through the African forest , overseas to the West Indies , and then here in Alabama . 
With shout and slow dance , with tears and song , with scream and contortion , the corner group was beset by hysteria and shivering , wailing , shouting , possession of something that seemed like an alien and outside force . 
It spread to most of the audience and was often viewed by visiting whites who snickered behind handkerchief and afterward discussed Negro religion . 
It sometimes ended in death-like trances with many lying exhausted and panting on chair and floor . 
To most of those who composed the Amen corner it was a magnificent and beautiful experience , something for which they lived from week to week . 
It was often re-enacted in less wild form at the Wednesday night prayer meeting . 
Wilson , on his first Sunday , witnessed this with something like disgust . 
He had preached a short sermon , trying to talk man-to-man to the audience , to tell them who he was , what he had done in Macon and Birmingham , and what he proposed to do here . 
He sympathized with them on the loss of their old pastor . 
But then , at mention of that name , the Amen corner broke loose . 
He had no chance to say another word . 
At the very end , when the audience was silent and breathless , a collection was taken and then slowly everyone filed out . 
The audience did not think much of the new pastor , and what the new pastor thought of the audience he did not dare at the time to say . 
During the next weeks he looked over the situation . 
First of all there was the parsonage , an utterly impossible place for civilized people to live in , originally poorly conceived , apparently not repaired for years , with no plumbing or sewage , with rat-holes and rot . 
It was arranged that he would board in the home of one of the old members of the church , a woman named Catt who , as Wilson afterward found , was briefly referred to as The Cat because of her sharp tongue and fierce initiative . 
Ann Catt was a lonely , devoted soul , never married , conducting a spotless home and devoted to her church , but a perpetual dissenter and born critic . 
She soared over the new pastor like an avenging angel lest he stray from the path and not know all the truth and gossip of which she was chief repository . 
Then Wilson looked over the church and studied its condition . 
The salary of the pastor had for years been $500 annually and even this was in arrears . 
Wilson made up his mind that he must receive at least $2,500 , but when he mentioned this to the Deacons they said nothing . 
The church itself must be repaired . 
It was dirty and neglected . 
It really ought to be rebuilt , and he determined to go up and talk to the city banks about this . 
Meanwhile , the city itself should be talked to . 
The streets in the colored section were dirty . 
There was typhoid and malaria . 
The children had nowhere to go and no place to play , not even sidewalks . 
The school was small , dark and ill-equipped . 
The teacher was a pliant fool . 
There were two liquor saloons not very far from the church , one white , that is conducted for white people with a side entrance for Negroes ; ; the other exclusively Negro . 
Undoubtedly , there was a good deal of gambling in both . 
On the other side of the church was a quiet , well-kept house with shutters and recently painted . 
Wilson inquired about it . 
It was called Kent House . 
The deacon of the church , Carlson , was its janitor . 
One of the leading members of the Amen corner was cook ; ; there were two or three colored maids employed there . 
Wilson was told that it was a sort of hotel for white people , which seemed to him rather queer . 
Why should a white hotel be set down in the center of Black Bottom ? 
But nevertheless it looked respectable . 
He was glad to have it there . 
The rest of Black Bottom was a rabbit warren of homes in every condition of neglect , disrepair and careful upkeep . 
Dives , carefully repaired huts , and nicely painted and ornamented cottages were jumbled together cheek by jowl with little distinction . 
The best could not escape from the worst and the worst nestled cosily beside the better . 
The yards , front and back , were narrow ; ; some were trash dumps , some had flower gardens . 
Behind were privies , for there was no sewage system . 
After looking about a bit , Wilson discovered beyond Black Bottom , across the river and far removed from the white city , a considerable tract of land , and it occurred to him that the church and the better Negro homes might gradually be moved to this plot . 
He talked about it to the Presiding Elder . 
The Presiding Elder looked him over rather carefully . 
He was not sure what kind of a man he had in hand . 
But there was one thing that he had to stress , and that was that the contribution to the general church expenses , the dollar money , had been seriously falling behind in this church , and that must be looked after immediately . 
In fact , he intimated clearly that that was the reason that Wilson had been sent here -- to make a larger contribution of dollar money . 
Wilson stressed the fact that clear as this was , they must have a better church , a more business-like conduct of the church organization , and an effort to get this religious center out of its rut of wild worship into a modern church organization . 
He emphasized to the Presiding Elder the plan of giving up the old church and moving across the river . 
The Presiding Elder was sure that that would be impossible . 
But he told Wilson to `` go ahead and try '' . 
And Wilson tried . 
It did seem impossible . 
The bank which held the mortgage on the old church declared that the interest was considerably in arrears , and the real estate people said flatly that the land across the river was being held for an eventual development for white working people who were coming in , and that none would be sold to colored folk . 
When it was proposed to rebuild the church , Wilson found that the terms for a new mortgage were very high . 
He was sure that he could do better if he went to Atlanta to get the deal financed . 
But when this proposal was made to his Deacon Board , he met unanimous opposition . 
The church certainly would not be removed . 
The very proposition was sacrilege . 
It had been here fifty years . 
It was going to stay forever . 
It was hardly possible to get any argument on the subject . 
As for rebuilding , well , that might be looked into , but there was no hurry , no hurry at all . 
Wilson again went downtown to a different banker , an intelligent young white man who seemed rather sympathetic , but he shook his head . 
`` Reverend '' , he said , `` I think you don't quite understand the situation here . 
Don't you see the amount of money that has been invested by whites around that church ? 
Tenements , stores , saloons , some gambling , I hope not too much . 
The colored people are getting employment at Kent House and other places , and they are near their places of employment . 
When a city has arranged things like this you cannot easily change them . 
Now , if I were you I would just plan to repair the old church so it would last for five or ten years . 
By that time , perhaps something better can be done '' . 
Then Wilson asked , `` What about this Kent House which you mention ? 
I don't understand why a white hotel should be down here '' . 
The young banker looked at him with a certain surprise , and then he said flatly : `` I'm afraid I can't tell you anything in particular about Kent House . 
You'll have to find out about it on your own . 
Hope to see you again '' . 
And he dismissed the colored pastor . 
It was next day that Sojourner came and sat beside him and took his hand . 
She said , `` My dear , do you know what Kent House is '' ? 
`` No '' , said Wilson , `` I don't . 
I was just asking about it . 
What is it '' ? 
`` It's a house of prostitution for white men with white girls as inmates . 
They hire a good deal of local labor , including two members of our Trustee Board . 
They buy some supplies from our colored grocers and they are patronized by some of the best white gentlemen in town '' . 
Wilson stared at her . 
`` My dear , you must be mistaken '' . 
`` Talk to Mrs. Catt '' , she said . 
And after Wilson had talked to Mrs. Catt and to others , he was absolutely amazed . 
This , of course , was the sort of thing that used to take place in Southern cities -- putting white houses of prostitution with colored girls in colored neighborhoods and carrying them on openly . 
But it had largely disappeared on account of protest by the whites and through growing resentment on the part of the Negroes as they became more educated and got better wages . 
But this situation of Kent House was more subtle . 
The wages involved were larger and more regular . 
The inmates were white and from out of town , avoiding local friction . 
The backing from the white town was greater and there was little publicity . 
Good wages , patronage and subscription of various kinds stopped open protest from Negroes . 
And yet Wilson knew that this place must go or he must go . 
And for him to leave this job now without accomplishing anything would mean practically the end of his career in the Methodist church , if not in all churches . 
Payne dismounted in Madison Place and handed the reins to Herold . 
There was a fog , which increased the darkness of the night . 
Two gas lamps were no more than a misleading glow . 
He might have been anywhere or nowhere . 
The pretence was that he was delivering a prescription from Dr. Verdi . 
Secretary of State Seward was a sick man . 
The idea had come from Herold , who had once been a chemist's clerk . 
The sick were always receiving medicines . 
No one would question such an errand . 
The bottle was filled up with flour . 
Before Payne loomed the Old Clubhouse , Seward's home , where Key had once been killed . 
Now it would have another death . 
From the outside it was an ordinary enough house of the gentry . 
He clomped heavily up the stoop and rang the bell . 
Like the bell at Mass , the doorbell was pitched too high . 
It was still Good Friday , after all . 
A nigger boy opened the door . 
Payne did not notice him . 
He was thinking chiefly of Cap . 
If their schedules were to synchronize , there was no point in wasting time . 
He pushed his way inside . 
For a moment the hall confused him . 
This was the largest house he had ever been in , almost the largest building , except for a hotel . 
He had no idea where Seward's room would be . 
In the half darkness the banisters gleamed , and the hall seemed enormous . 
Above him somewhere were the bedrooms . 
Seward would be up there . 
He explained his errand , but without bothering much to make it plausible , for he felt something well up in him which was the reason why he had fled the army . 
He did not really want to kill , but as in the sexual act , there was a moment when the impulse took over and could not be downed , even while you watched yourself giving way to it . 
He was no longer worried . 
Everything would be all right . 
He knew that in this mood he could not be stopped . 
Still , the sensation always surprised him . 
It was a thrill he felt no part in . 
He could only watch with a sort of gentle dismay while his body did these quick , appalling , and efficient things . 
He brushed by the idiotic boy and lumbered heavily up the stairs . 
They were carpeted , but made for pumps and congress gaiters , not the great clodhoppers he wore . 
The sound of his footsteps was like a muffled drum . 
At the top of the stairs he ran into somebody standing there angrily in a dressing gown . 
He stopped and whispered his errand . 
Young Frederick Seward held out his hand . 
Panting a little , Payne shook his head . 
Dr. Verdi had told him to deliver his package in person . 
Frederick Seward said his father was sleeping , and then went through a pantomime at his father's door , to prove the statement . 
`` Very well '' , Payne said . 
`` I will go '' . 
He smiled , but now that he knew where the elder Seward was , he did not intend to go . 
He pulled out his pistol and fired it . 
It made no sound . 
It had misfired . 
Reversing it , he smashed the butt down on Frederick Seward's head , over and over again . 
It was the first blow that was always difficult . 
After that , violence was exultantly easy . 
He got caught up into it and became a different person . 
Only afterwards did an act like that become meaningless , so that he would puzzle over it for days , whereas at the time it had seemed quite real . 
The nigger boy fled down the stairs , screaming , `` Murder '' . 
It was not murder at all . 
Payne was more methodical than that . 
He was merely clearing a way to what he had to do . 
He ran for the sick room , found his pistol was broken , and threw it away . 
A knife would do . 
From childhood he had known all about knives . 
Someone blocked the door from inside . 
He smashed it in and tumbled into darkness . 
He saw only dimly moving figures , but when he slashed them they yelled and fled . 
He went for the bed , jumped on it , and struck where he could , repeatedly . 
It was like finally getting into one's own nightmares to punish one's dreams . 
Two men pulled him off . 
Nobody said anything . 
Payne hacked at their arms . 
There was a lady there , in a nightdress . 
He would not have wanted to hurt a lady . 
Another man approached , this one fully dressed . 
When the knife went into his chest , he went down at once . 
`` I'm mad '' , shouted Payne , as he ran out into the hall . 
`` I'm mad '' , and only wished he had been . 
That would have made things so much easier . 
But he was not mad . 
He was only dreaming . 
He clattered down the stairs and out of the door . 
Somewhere in the fog , the nigger boy was still yelling murder . 
One always wakes up , even from one's own dreams . 
The clammy air revived him . 
Herold , he saw , had fled . 
Well , one did not expect much of people like Herold . 
He unhitched his horse , walked it away , mounted , and spurred it on . 
The nigger boy was close behind him . 
Then the nigger boy turned back and he was alone . 
He rode on and on . 
He had no idea where he was . 
After some time he came to an open field . 
An open field was better than a building , that was for sure , so he dismounted , turned off the horse , and plunged through the grass . 
He felt curiously sleepy , the world seemed far away ; ; he knew he should get to Cap , but he didn't know how . 
He was sure , for he had done as he was told , hadn't he ? 
Cap would find him and take care of him . 
So choosing a good tree , he clambered up into it , found a comfortable notch , and curled up in it to sleep , like the tousled bear he was , with his hands across his chest , as though surfeited with honey . 
Violence always made him tired , but he was not frightened . 
In Boston , Edwin Booth was winding up a performance of A New Way To Pay Old Debts . 
It was a part so familiar to him that he did not bother to think about it any more . 
Acting soothed him . 
On a stage he always knew what to do , and tonight , to judge by the applause , he must be doing it better than usual . 
As Sir Giles Overreach ( how often had he had to play that part , who did not believe a word of it ) , he raised his arm and declaimed : `` Where is my honour now '' ? 
That was one of the high spots of the play . 
The audience , as usual , loved it . 
He was delighted to see them so happy . 
If he had any worries , it was only the small ones , about Mother in New York , and his daughter Edwina and what she might be doing at this hour , with her Aunt Asia , in Philadelphia . 
Everyone is ambivalent about his profession , if he has practised it long enough , but there were still moments when he loved the stage and all those unseen people out there , who might cheer you or boo you , but that was largely , though not entirely , up to you . 
They made the world seem friendly somehow , though he knew it was not . 
7 , Wilkes was quite right about one thing . 
Laura Keene had been in the green room . 
The commotion had brought her into the wings . 
Since she could not act , one part suited her as well as any other , and so she was the first person to offer Mr. Lincoln a glass of water , holding it up to the box , high above her head , to Miss Harris , who had asked for it . 
She had been one of the first to collect her wits . 
It was not so much that the shot had stunned the audience , as that they had been stunned already . 
Most of them had seen Our American Cousin before , and unless Miss Keene was on stage , there was not much to it . 
The theatre was hot and they were drugged with boredom . 
The stage had been empty , except for Harry Hawk , doing his star monologue . 
The audience was fond of Harry Hawk , he was a dear , in or out of character , but he was not particularly funny . 
At the end of the monologue the audience would applaud . 
Meanwhile it looked at the scenery . 
`` Well , I guess I know enough to turn you inside out , you sockdologizing old mantrap '' ! 
Said Trenchard , otherwise Hawk . 
There was always a pause here , before the next line . 
That was when the gun went off . 
Yet even that explosion did not mean much . 
Guns were going off all over Washington City these days , because of the celebrations , and the theatre was not soundproof . 
Then the audience saw a small , dim figure appear at the edge of the Presidential box . 
`` Sic semper tyrannis '' , it said mildly . 
Booth had delivered his line . 
Behind him billowed a small pungent cloud of smoke . 
They strained forward . 
They had not heard what had been said . 
They had been sitting too long to be able to stand up easily . 
The figure leapt from the box , almost lost its balance , the flag draped there tore in the air , the figure landed on its left leg , fell on its hands , and pressed itself up . 
Harry Hawk still had his arm raised towards the wings . 
His speech faltered . 
He did not lower his arm . 
The figure was so theatrically dressed , that it was as though a character from some other play had blundered into this one . 
The play for Saturday night was to be a benefit performance of The Octoroon . 
This figure looked like the slave dealer from that . 
But it also looked like a toad , hopping away from the light . 
There was something maimed and crazy about its motion that disturbed them . 
Then it disappeared into the wings . 
Harry Hawk had not shifted position , but he at last lowered his arm . 
Mrs. Lincoln screamed . 
There was no mistaking that scream . 
It was what anyone who had ever seen her had always expected her to do . 
Yet this scream had a different note in it . 
That absence of an urgent self-indulgence dashed them awake like a pail of water . 
Clara Harris , one of the guests in the box , stood up and demanded water . 
Her action was involuntary . 
When something unexpected happened , one always asked for water if one were a woman , brandy if one were a man . 
Mrs. Lincoln screamed again . 
In the Presidential box someone leaned over the balustrade and yelled : `` He has shot the President '' ! 
That got everybody up . 
On the stage , Harry Hawk began to weep . 
Laura Keene brushed by him with the glass of water . 
The crowd began to move . 
In Washington City everyone lived in a bubble of plots , and one death might attract another . 
It was not exactly panic they gave way to , but they could not just sit there . 
The beehive voices , for no one could bear silence , drowned out the sound of Mrs. Lincoln's weeping . 
At the rear of the auditorium , upstairs , some men tried to push open the door to the box corridor . 
It would not give . 
A Dr. Charles Taft clambered up on the stage and got the actors to hoist him up to the box . 
In the audience a man named Ferguson lost his head and tried to rescue a little girl from the mob , on the same principle which had led Miss Harris to demand water . 
Someone opened the corridor door from the inside , and called for a doctor . 
Somehow Dr. Charles Leale was forced through the mob and squeezed out into the dingy corridor . 
He went straight to the Presidential box . 
As usual , Mrs. Lincoln had lost her head , but nobody blamed her for doing so now . 
There was a little blood on the hem of her dress , for the assassin had slashed Miss Harris's companion , Major Rathbone , with a knife . 
Rathbone said he was bleeding to death . 
By the look of him he wasn't that far gone . 
With a sneer , the man spread his legs and , a third time , confronted them . 
Once more , Katie reared , and whinnied in fear . 
For a moment , boy and mount hung in midair . 
Stevie twisted and , frantically , commanded the mare to leap straight ahead . 
But the stranger was nimbler still . 
With a bold arm , he dared once more to obstruct them . 
Katie reared a third time , then , trembling , descended . 
The stranger leered . 
Seizing the bridle , he tugged with all his might and forced Katie to her knees . 
It was absurd . 
Stevie could feel himself toppling . 
He saw the ground coming up -- and the stranger's head . 
With incredible ferocity , he brought his fists together and struck . 
The blow encountered silky hair and hard bone . 
The man uttered a weird cry , spun about , and collapsed in the sand . 
Katie scrambled to her feet , Stevie agilely retaining his seat . 
Again Katie reared , and now , wickedly , he compelled her to bring her hooves down again and again upon the sprawled figure of the stranger . 
He could feel his own feet , iron-shod , striking repeatedly until the body was limp . 
He gloated , and his lips slavered . 
He heard himself chortling . 
They rode around and around to trample the figure into the sand . 
Only the top of the head , with a spot bare and white as a clamshell , remained visible . 
Stevie was shouting triumphantly . 
A train hooted . 
Instantly , he chilled . 
They were pursuing him . 
He was frightened ; ; his fists clutched so tightly that his knuckles hurt . 
Then Katie stumbled , and again he was falling , falling ! 
`` Stevie ! 
Stevie '' ! 
His mother was nudging him , but he was still falling . 
His head hung over the boards of Katie's stall ; ; before it was sprawled the mangled corpse of the bearded stranger . 
`` Stevie , wake up now ! 
We're nearly there '' . 
He had been dreaming . 
He was safe in his Mama's arms . 
The train had slowed . 
Houses winked as the cars rolled beside a little depot . 
`` Po' Chavis '' ! 
The trainman called . 
He came by and repeated , `` Po' Chavis '' ! 
Chapter 6 Bong ! 
Bong ! 
Startled him awake . 
The room vibrated as if a giant hand had rocked it . 
Bong ! 
A dull boom and a throbbing echo . 
The walls bulged , the floor trembled , the windowpanes rattled . 
He stared at the far morning , expecting a pendulum to swing across the horizon . 
Bong ! 
He raced to the window and yanked at the sash . 
Bong ! 
The wood was old , the paint alligatored . 
Bong ! 
A fresh breeze saluted him . 
Six o'clock ! 
He put his head out . 
There was the slate roof of the church ; ; ivy climbed the red brick walls like a green-scaled monster . 
The clock which had struck presented an innocent face . 
In the kitchen Mama was wiping the cupboards . 
`` There's a tower and a steeple on the church a million feet high . 
And the loudest clock in the whole world '' ! 
`` I know , Stephen '' , she smiled . 
`` They say that our steeple is one hundred and sixty-two feet high . 
The clock you heard strike -- it's really the town clock -- was installed last April by Mrs. Shorter , on her birthday '' . 
He dressed , and sped outdoors . 
He crossed Broome Street to Orange Square . 
The steeple leaned backward , while the church advanced like a headless creature in a long , shapeless coat . 
The spire seemed to hold up the sky . 
Port Jervis , basking in the foothills , was the city of God . 
The Dutch Reformed Church , with two steeples and its own school was on Main Street ; ; the Episcopal Church was one block down Sussex Street ; ; the Catholic Saint Mary's Church , with an even taller steeple and a cross on top , stood on Ball Street . 
The Catholics had the largest cemetery , near the Neversink River where Main Street ran south ; ; Stevie whistled when he passed these alien grounds . 
God was everywhere , in the belfry , in the steeple , in the clouds , in the trees , and in the mountains hulking on the horizon . 
Somewhere , beyond , where shadows lurked , must be the yawning pit of which Papa preached and the dreadful Lake of Fire . 
So , walking in awe , he became familiar with God , who resided chiefly in Drew Centennial Church with its high steeple and clock . 
There was no church like Drew Church , no preacher like Papa , who was intimate with Him , and could consign sinners to hellfire . 
To know God he must follow in Papa's footsteps . 
He was fortunate , and proud . 
The veterans , idling on their benches in the Square , beneath the soldiers' monument , got to their feet when Papa approached : `` Morning , Reverend '' ! 
His being and His will -- Stevie could not divide God from his Papa -- illumined every parish face , turned the choir into a band of angels , and the pulpit into the tollgate to Heaven . 
`` We have nine hundred and eleven members in our charge '' , Mama announced , `` and three hundred and eighty Sunday-school scholars '' . 
When Papa went out to do God's work , Stevie often accompanied him in the buggy , which was drawn by Violet , the new black mare . 
Although they journeyed westerly as far as Germantown , beyond the Erie roundhouse and the machine shop , and along the Delaware and Hudson Canal , and northward to Brooklyn , below Point Peter , he could see the church spire wherever he looked back . 
Sometimes they went south and rolled past the tollhouse -- `` Afternoon , Reverend '' ! 
-- and crossed the suspension bridge to Matamoras ; ; that was Pennsylvania . 
In the Delaware River , three long islands were overgrown with greening trees and underbrush . 
South of Laurel Grove Cemetery , and below the junction of the Neversink and the Delaware , was the Tri-State Rock , from which Stevie could spy New Jersey and Pennsylvania , as well as New York , simply by spinning around on his heel . 
On these excursions , Papa instructed him on man's chief end , which was his duty to God and his own salvation . 
However , a boy's lively eyes might rove . 
Where Cuddleback Brook purled into the Neversink was a magnificent swimming hole . 
Papa pointed a scornful finger at the splashing youth : `` Idle recreation '' ! 
Stevie saw no idols ; ; it troubled him that he couldn't always see what Papa saw . 
He was torn between the excitement in the sun-inflamed waters and a little engine chugging northward on the Monticello Branch . 
`` Where you been today '' ? 
Ludie inquired every evening , pretending that he did not care . 
`` He'll make a preacher out of you '' ! 
`` No , he won't '' ! 
Stevie flared . 
`` Not me '' ! 
`` Somebody's got to be a preacher in the family . 
He made a will and last testament before we left Paterson . 
I heard them ! 
Uncle and Aunt Howe were the witnesses '' . 
`` Will he die '' ? 
`` Everybody does '' . 
Ludie could be hateful . 
To speak of Papa dying was a sin . 
It could never happen as long as God was alert and the Drew steeple stood guard with its peaked lance . 
Stevie was constantly slipping into the church . 
He pulled with all his strength at the heavy , brass-bound door , and shuffled along the wainscoted wall . 
The cold , mysterious presence of God was all around him . 
At the end of a shaft of light , the pews appeared to be broad stairs in a long dungeon . 
Far away , standing before a curtained window in the study room , was his father , hands tucked under his coattails , and staring into the dark church . 
The figure was wreathed in an extraordinary luminescence . 
The boy shuddered at the deathly pale countenance with its wrinkles and gray hair . 
Would Papa really die ? 
The mouth was thin-lipped and wide , the long cleft in the upper lip like a slide . 
When Papa's slender fingers removed the spectacles , there were red indentations on the bridge of the strong nose . 
`` It's time you began to think on God , Stephen . 
Perhaps one day He will choose you as He chose me , long ago . 
Therefore , give Him your affection and store up His love for you . 
Open your heart to Him and pray , Stephen , pray ! 
For His mercy and His guidance to spare you from evil and eternal punishment in the Lake of Fire '' . 
Stevie had heard these words many times , yet on each occasion they caused him to tremble . 
For he feared the Lake of Fire . 
He strove to think of God and His eternal wrath ; ; he must pray to be spared . 
Papa was disappointed that none of the brothers had heard the Call . 
Not George , Townley , or Ted , certainly not Ludie . 
Burt was at Hackettstown and Will at Albany Law School , where they surely could not hear it . 
Someday God would choose him . 
He would hear the Call and would run to tell Papa . 
The stern face would relax , the black-clad arms would embrace him , `` My son '' ! 
Yet how might he know the Call when it came ? 
Probably , as in Scriptures , a still , small voice would whisper . 
It would summon him once ; ; if he missed it , never again . 
What if it came when he was playing , or was asleep and dreaming ? 
He must not fail to hear it . 
He was Papa's chosen ; ; therefore , nothing but good could happen to him , even in God's wrathful storms . 
When the skies grew dark and thunder rolled across the valley , he was unafraid . 
Aggie might fly into a closet , shut the door and bury her head in the clothes ; ; he dared to wait for the lightning . 
Lightning could strike you blind if you were a sinner ! 
But he was good . 
He clenched his fists and faced the terror . 
Thunder crashed ; ; barrels tumbled down the mountainsides , and bounced and bounced till their own fury split them open . 
Lightning might strike the steeples of the other churches ; ; not of Drew Church . 
A flash illumined the trees as a crooked bolt twigged in several directions . 
Violet whinnied from the stable . 
He ran out into the downpour , sped across the yard and into the buggy room . 
`` Don't be afraid , Violet '' ! 
He shouted , and was aghast at the echoes . 
`` Don't you be afraid '' ! 
He would save her . 
If there was a fire or a flood he would save Mama first and Violet next . 
Drenched and shaking , he stood near the sweet-smelling stall and dared to pat her muzzle . 
`` Don't you be afraid , Violet '' ! 
After the storm , the sky cleared blue and cool , and fragrant air swept the hills . 
When the sun came out , Stevie strode proudly into Orange Square , smiling like a landlord on industrious tenants . 
The fountain had brimmed over , the cannon were wet , the soldiers' monument glistened . 
Even before the benches had dried , the Civil War veterans were straggling back to their places . 
The great spire shone as if the lightning had polished it . 
He jumped . 
The pointed shadow had nearly touched him . 
He trailed Ludie to the baseball game in the lot on Kingston Street near the Dutch Reformed . 
`` Go on home '' ! 
Ludie screeched at him . 
`` Someone'll tell Papa '' ! 
No one told on Ludie , not even when he slipped live grasshoppers into the mite-box . 
Ludie did as he pleased . 
Ludie took his slingshot and climbed to the rooftop to shoot at crows . 
Ludie chewed roofer's tar . 
Ludie had a cigar box full of marbles and shooters , and a Roman candle from last Fourth of July . 
Ludie hopped rides on freight cars , and was chased by Mr. Yankton , the railroad guard . 
He came home overheated , ran straight to the ice-chest , and gulped shivery cold water . 
Stevie envied him . 
That Ludie ! 
He , too , cocked his cap at a jaunty angle , jingled marbles in his pocket , and swaggered down Main Street . 
On the Christophers' lawn , little girls in white pinafores were playing grownups at a tea party . 
A Newfoundland sat solemnly beside a doghouse half his size . 
Stevie yearned for a dog . 
He wondered whether God had a dog in the sky . 
He meandered down Pike Street , past the First National Bank with its green window shades . 
He crossed the tracks to Delaware House , where ladies in gay dresses and men in straw boaters and waxed mustaches crowded the verandah . 
A tall lady , with a ruffled collar very low on her bosom , turned insolent green eyes upon him . 
She was taller than Aggie . 
She was so beautiful with her rosy mouth and haughty air that she had to be wicked . 
Fiddles screeched ; ; a piano tinkled . 
`` P. J. '' -- as Ludie called the town -- was crowded with summer people who came to the mountains to escape the heat in the big cities . 
They stayed at hotels and boardinghouses , or at private homes . 
Rich people went to Delaware House , Opera House , American House or Fowler House . 
If the crummy bastard could write ! 
That's how it should be . 
It's those two fucken niggers ! 
Krist , I wish they could write ! 
Nigger pussy . 
He thought of sweet wet nigger pussy . 
Oh , sweet land of heaven , haint there just nothin like sweet nigger pussy ! 
He thought of her , the first one . 
He had caught her coming out of the shack . 
She was a juicy one . 
Oh how they bounced ! 
Fresh , warm , sweet and juicy , sweet lovin sixteen , she was . 
Man , how I love nigger pussy ! 
The snow came a little faster now , he noted . 
He thought of Joe Harris , the nigger who had gone after his sister . 
He chuckled , the memory vivid . 
Jee-sus , We Fixed him ! 
Yooee , we fixed him ! 
The snow again . 
If only the fucken weather wasn't so lousy ! 
Goddamn niggers , Lord . 
What I have to put up with ! 
Sonuvabitch , I can't figure out what in hell for they went and put niggers in my squad for . 
Only one worth a shit , and that's Brandon . 
He ain't so bad . 
His thoughts turned to other things . 
The big shock everybody had when they found ol Slater and those others done for . 
Kaboom for . 
He had been pretty scared himself , wondering what the hell was coming off . 
But he soon saw which way the ball was bouncing . 
Soon came back to his senses . 
`` I soon came back to my senses '' , he said , aloud , to the young blizzard , proudly , drawing himself up , as if making a report to some important superior . 
I was the first to get my squad on the ball , and anybody thinkin it was easy is pretty damn dumb . 
Look at thum . 
That goddamn redheader was the worst . 
He kept sayin , not me , not me , I don't wanta wind up like em . 
But I told him , goddammit . 
`` I told him '' , he said aloud They'll get the guys that done it . 
That'll put the place back to normal . 
Normal , by God . 
Maybe it's a good thing it happened . 
Maybe they'll stop it now , once for all . 
Clean the place up . 
They're doin it now . 
I hear the whole bunch is croakin out in the snow . 
They'll get the guys that done it . 
There was something troubling him though : as yet they hadn't Five days . 
Keerist . 
Prickly twinges of annoyance ran through him . 
His eyes blinked hard , snapping on and squashing some bad things that were trying to push their way into him . 
A tune began to whirl inside his head . 
One of his favorites : `` Guitar Boogie '' . 
It always came on , faithfully , just like a radio or juke box , whenever he started to worry too much about something , when the bad things tried to push their way into him . 
The music drove them off , or away , and he was free to walk on air in a very few moments , humming and jiving within , beating the rhythm within . 
He glowed with anticipation about what would happen to the culprits when they caught them . 
Turn the bastards over to me -- to me and my boys -- no nigger ever got what would be comin to them -- reactionary bastards . 
He had never heard the word reactionary before his life as a POW began . 
It was a word he was proud of , a word that meant much to him , and he used it with great pleasure , almost as if it were an exclusive possession , and more : he sensed himself to be very highly educated , four cuts above any of the folks back home . 
`` Four cuts at least '' , he chuckled to himself , `` and I owe it all to them '' . 
The word also made him feel hate , sincere hate , for those so labeled . 
He used it very effectively when he wanted to get his squad on the ball . 
It came up again and again in the discussion sessions . 
Lousy Reactionary bastards been tryin to fuck up the Program for months . 
Months . 
Hired , hard lackeys of the Warmongering capitalists . 
Not captured , sent here . 
To fuck up the program . 
You guys remember that . 
Remember that He heard himself haranguing them . 
He saw himself before them delivering the speech . 
He laughed , suddenly , feeling a surge of power telling him of his hold over them , seeing himself before them , receiving utmost respect and attention . 
One day , Ching had told him ( smiling , patting him on the back ) as they walked to the weekly conference of squad leaders , `` Keep it up , your squad is good , one of the best , keep it up , keep up the good work '' . 
He would ! 
That was really something , coming from Ching . 
`` Really something '' , he said , aloud . 
Dirty Reactionary bastards comin down here in the night and bumpin off ol Slater and those other poor bastards . 
`` They'll get them by God and let them bring them down here to me , just let them , God , I'll slice their balls right off . 
'' His arm moved swiftly , violently , once , twice . 
He felt intense satisfaction . 
He was tingling within . 
Before him , mutilated , bleeding to death , they lay . 
It was as if it had been done . 
`` Bastards '' , he said aloud , spitting on them . 
He halted , and looked around . 
Rivers of cold sweat were suddenly unleashed within him . 
The thought came back , the one nagging at him these past four days . 
He tried to stifle it . 
But the words were forming . 
He knew he couldn't . 
He braced himself . 
Somebody'll hafta start thinkin . 
He fought it , seeking to kill the last few words , but on they came out . 
He was trembling , a strange feeling upon him , fully expecting some catastrophe to strike him dead on the spot . 
But it didn't . 
And he took heart ; ; the final word came forth . 
Now he heard it , fully ; ; `` bout takin his place '' He listened , waited , nothing happened . 
He felt good . 
His old self . 
The music arrived , taking him its rhythm . 
Stroked him , snaked all through him , the lyrics lifted him , took him from one magic isle to another , stopping briefly at each Brandon . 
He is good . 
Damn good . 
But a nigger . 
Johnson . 
Jesus , the guy says he is trying . 
But he isn't with it , not at all with it . 
When I talked to Ching about it , he said , Everyone can learn , if he is not a Reactionary or lazy . 
No one is stupid . 
That's what he said . 
He oughta know . 
It is plain as hell Johnson is no reactionary . 
So you're not tryin , Johnson , you bastard you . 
He looked over at him , lying there , asleep , and he felt a wave of revulsion . 
How he loathed him . 
Sleepy-eyed , soft-spoken Johnson , Biggest thorn in my side of the whole fucken squad . 
He was the guy what always goofed at Question Time . 
Why couldn't they have dumped him off on someone else ? 
Why me ? 
Why didn't the damn Reactionaries bump him off ? 
Why Slater ? 
Like a particle drawn to a magnet he returned to that which was pressing so hard in his mind . 
The music surged up , but it failed to check it . 
Who is the man to take His place ? 
The guy with most on the Ball . 
Most on the ball . 
Handle men . 
Thoroughly Wised up . 
Knows the score With a supreme effort , he broke it off . 
He turned to the window again . 
A gnawing and gnashing within him . 
The snow was tumbling down furiously now . 
Huge glob-flakes hitting the ground , piling higher and higher . 
He stared at it , amazed , alarmed . 
The whole fucken sky's cavin in ! 
Keeeerist ! 
Lookit it ! 
Cover the whole building , bury us all , by nightfall . 
Jesus ! 
Somebody , got to be somebody If I don't put my two cents in soon , somebody else will I know they're waitin only for one thing : for the bastards what done it to be nailed . 
Maybe they already got them . 
He was again tingling with pleasure , seeing himself clearly in Slater's shoes . 
Top dog , sleeping and eating right there with the Staff . 
Ching , Tien , all of them . 
Top dog . 
Poor ol Slater . 
Jesus , imagine , the crummy bastards , they'll get em , they'll get what's comin to em . 
He whirled about suddenly . 
It was nothing , though his heart was thumping wildly . 
Somebody was up . 
That was all . 
`` Boy , you're stirrin early '' , a sleepy voice said . 
`` Yehhh '' , said Coughlin , testily , eyeing him up and down . 
`` Lookit that come down , willya '' , said the man , scratching himself , yawning . 
`` Yehhh '' , said Coughlin , practically spitting on him . 
The man moved away . 
That's the way . 
They'll toe the line . 
Goddamn it . 
Keep the chatter to a minimum , short answers , one word , if possible . 
Less bull the more you can do with em . 
That's Brown's trouble . 
All he does is to bullshit with his squad , and they are the stupidest bastards around . 
Just about to get their asses kicked into hut Seven . 
Plenty of room there now . 
All those dumb 8-Balls croaked . 
You can do anything with these dumb fucks if you know how . 
Anything . 
They'd cut their mothers' belly open . 
Give um the works . 
See , he's already snapping it up , the dumb jerk . 
Coughlin grinned , feeling supremely on top of things . 
He watched the snow once again . 
It infuriated him . 
It made no sense to him . 
He whirled around , suddenly hot all over , finding the man who had been standing before him a few moments back , nailing him to the spot on which he now stood , open-mouthed . 
`` You , Listen ! 
-- name William Foster's Four Internal Contradictions in Capitalism . 
Quick -- Quick -- now '' ! 
The man shrank before the hot fury , searching frantically for the answer . 
Finnegan woke up . 
There was a hell of a noise this time of morning . 
He stared out the window . 
For Christ's sake ! 
The whole fucken sky's caved in ! 
He looked for the source of the noise that had awakened him . 
It was that prick Coughlin . 
What the hell was he up to now ? 
Why didn't he drop dead ? 
How did they miss him when they got Slater ? 
How ? 
Then he was asking himself the usual early morning questions : What the Hell am I doin here ? 
Is this a nut-house ? 
Am I nuts ? 
Is this for real ? 
Am I dreamin ? 
From somewhere in the hut came Coughlin's voice . 
`` How long did you study ? 
How long , buddy '' ? 
`` For Christ's sake '' ! 
A voice pleaded . 
`` Don't Christsake me , buddy ! 
Just answer . 
C'mon -- 'mon ! 
'' I'm no hero . 
Did I start the damn war ? 
Automatically , Finnegan started going over today's lesson . 
Capitalism rots from the core . 
Did I start the damn war ? 
Who did ? 
That's a good one . 
I thought I knew . 
Why don't Uncle Sam mind his own fucken business ? 
I'll bet both together did . 
I bet . 
So fuck them both . 
Goddamn . 
Goddammit . 
Just let me go home to Jersey , back to the shore , oh , Jesus , the shore . 
The waves breakin in on you and your girl at night there on the warm beach in the moonlight . 
If I hafta do this to stay alive by God I'll do it . 
I hated the goddamn army from the first day I got in anyhow . 
All pricks like Coughlin run it anyway , one way or another . 
Fuck them . 
He rolled over and tried to shut out the noise , now much louder . 
He snuggled into the blanket . 
Brandon dreamed . 
He was sitting on top of a log which was spinning round and around in the water . 
A river , wide as the Missouri , where it ran by his place . 
The log was spinning . 
But he was not . 
So what ? 
Why should I be spinning just because the goddamn log is spinning ? 
( he asked this out loud , but no one heard it over the other noise in the hut ) . 
Over on the bank , the west bank , a man stood , calling to him . 
He couldn't make out what he was saying . 
No doubt it had to do with the log . 
Why should he be concerned ? 
Rousseau is so persuasive that Voltaire is almost convinced that he should burn his books , too . 
But while the two men are riding into the country , where they are going to dinner , they are attacked in the dark of the forest by a band of thieves , who strip them of everything , including most of their clothes . 
`` You must be a very learned man '' , says Voltaire to one of the bandits . 
`` A learned man '' ? 
The bandit laughs in his face . 
But Voltaire perseveres . 
He goes to the chief himself . 
`` At what university did you study '' ? 
He asks . 
He refuses to believe that the bandit chief never attended a higher institution . 
`` To have become so corrupt '' , he says , `` surely you must have studied many arts and sciences '' . 
The chief , annoyed by these questions , knocks Voltaire down and shouts at him that he not only never went to any school , but never even learned how to read . 
When finally the two bedraggled men reach their friend's home , Voltaire's fears are once again aroused . 
For it is such a distinguished place , with such fine works of art and such a big library , that there can be little doubt but that the owner has become depraved by all this culture . 
To Voltaire's surprise , however , their host gives them fresh clothes to put on , opens his purse to lend them money and sits them down before a good dinner . 
Immediately after dinner , however , Rousseau asks for still another favor . 
Could he have pen and paper , please ? 
He is in a hurry to write another essay against culture . 
Such was the impromptu that Voltaire gave to howls of laughter at Sans Souci and that was soon circulated in manuscript throughout the literary circles of Europe , to be printed sometime later , but with the name of Timon of Athens , the famous misanthrope , substituted for that of Rousseau . 
How cruel ! 
But at the same time how understandable . 
How could the rich , for whom life was made so simple , ever understand the subterfuges , the lies , the frauds , the errors , sins and even crimes to which the poor were driven in their efforts to overcome the great advantages the rich had in the race of life ? 
How , for example , could a Voltaire understand the strange predicament in which a Rousseau would find himself when , soon after the furor of his first Discourse , he acquired still another title to fame ? 
This time as a musician . 
As a composer . 
Ever since he had first begun to study music and to teach it , Rousseau had dreamed of piercing through to fame as the result of a successful opera . 
But his facility in this genre was not great . 
And his efforts to get a performance for his Gallant Muses invariably failed . 
And for good reasons . 
His operatic music had little merit . 
But then one day , while on a week's visit to the country home of a retired Swiss jeweler , Rousseau amused the company with a few little melodies he had written , to which he attached no great importance . 
He was really amazed to discover the other guests so excited about these delicate little songs . 
`` Put a few such songs together '' , they urged him . 
`` String them onto some sort of little plot , and you'll have a delightful operetta '' . 
He didn't believe them . 
`` Nonsense '' , he said . 
`` This is the sort of stuff I write and then throw away '' ! 
`` Heaven forbid '' ! 
Cried the ladies , enchanted by his music . 
`` You must make an opera out of this material '' . 
And they wouldn't leave off arguing and pleading until he had promised . 
Oh , the irony and the bitterness of it ! 
That after all his years of effort to become a composer , he should now , now when he was still stoutly replying to the critics of his Discourse on the Arts and Sciences , be so close to a success in music and have to reject it . 
Or at least appear to reject it ! 
But what else could he do ? 
You couldn't on the one hand decry the arts and at the same time practice them , could you ? 
Well , yes , perhaps in literature , since you could argue that you couldn't keep silent about your feelings against literature and so were involved in spite of yourself . 
But now music too ? 
No . 
That would be too much ! 
And the fault , of course , was Rameau's . 
The fault was Rameau's and that of the whole culture of this Parisian age . 
For it was Rameau's type of music that he had been trying to write , and that he couldn't write . 
These little songs , however , were sweet nothings from the heart , tender memories of his childhood , little melodies that anyone could hum and that would make one want to weep . 
But no . 
He couldn't appear as a composer now . 
That glory , craved for so long , was now forbidden to him . 
Still , just for the ladies , and just for this once , for this one weekend in the country , he would make a little piece out of his melodies . 
The ladies were delighted and Jean Jacques was applauded . 
And everyone went to work to learn the parts which he wrote . 
But then , after the little operetta had been given its feeble amateur rendering , everyone insisted that it was too good to be lost forever , and that the Royal Academy of Music must now have the manuscript in order to give it the really first-rate performance it merited . 
Rousseau was aware that he must seem like a hypocrite , standing there and arguing that he could not possibly permit a public performance . 
The ladies especially couldn't understand what troubled him . 
A contradiction ? 
Bah , what was a contradiction in one's life ? 
Every woman has had the experience of saying no when she meant yes , and saying yes when she meant no . 
Rousseau had to admit that though he couldn't agree to a public performance , he would indeed , just for his own private satisfaction , dearly love to know how his work would sound when done by professional musicians and by trained voices . 
`` I'd simply like to know if it is as good as you kind people seem to think '' , he said . 
Duclos , the historian , pointed out to Jean Jacques that this was impossible . 
The musicians of the Royal Opera would not rehearse a work merely to see how it would sound . 
Merely to satisfy the author's curiosity . 
Rousseau agreed . 
But he recalled that Rameau had once had a private performance of his opera Armide , behind closed doors , just for himself alone . 
Duclos understood what was bothering Rousseau : that the writer of the Prosopopoeia of Fabricius should now become known as the writer of an amusing little operetta . 
That would certainly be paradoxical . 
But Duclos thought he saw a way out . 
`` Let me do the submitting to the Royal Academy '' , he suggested . 
`` Your name will never appear . 
No one will even suspect that it is your work '' . 
To that Rousseau could agree . 
But now what crazy twists and turns of his emotions ! 
Afraid at one and the same time that his work might be turned down -- which would be a blow to his pride even though no one knew he was the author -- and that the work would be accepted , and then that his violent feelings in the matter would certainly betray how deeply concerned he was in spite of himself . 
And how anxious this lover of obscurity was for applause ! 
And thus torn between his desire to be known as the composer of a successful opera and the necessity of remaining true to his proclaimed desire for anonymity , Rousseau suffered through several painful weeks . 
All these emotions were screwed up to new heights when , after acceptance and the first rehearsals , there ensued such a buzz of excitement among Parisian music lovers that Duclos had to come running to Rousseau to inform him that the news had reached the superintendent of the King's amusements , and that he was now demanding that the work be offered first at the royal summer palace of Fontainebleau . 
Imagine the honor of it ! 
`` What was your answer '' ? 
Jean Jacques asked , striving to appear unimpressed . 
`` I refused '' , Duclos said . 
`` What else could I do ? 
Monsieur De Cury was incensed , of course . 
But I said I would first have to get the author's permission . 
And I was certain he would refuse '' . 
How infuriating all this was ! 
Why had not this success come to him before he had plunged into his Discourse , and before he had committed himself to a life of austerity and denial ? 
Now , when everything was opening up to him -- even the court of Louis 15 ! 
-- he had to play a role of self-effacement . 
Back and forth Duclos had to go , between M. De Cury and Jean Jacques and between the Duke D'Aumont and Jean Jacques again , as his little operetta , The Village Soothsayer , though still unperformed , took on ever more importance . 
And of course the news of who the composer was did finally begin to get around among his closest friends . 
But they , naturally , kept his secret well , and the public at large knew only of a great excitement in musical and court circles . 
How titillating it was to go among people who did not know him as the composer , but who talked in the most glowing terms of the promise of the piece after having heard the first rehearsals . 
The furor was such that people who could not possibly have squirmed their way into the rehearsals were pretending that they were intimate with the whole affair and that it would be sensational . 
And listening to such a conversation one morning while taking a cup of chocolate in a cafe , Rousseau found himself bathed in perspiration , trembling lest his authorship become known , and at the same time dreaming of the startling effect he would make if he should proclaim himself suddenly as the composer . 
He felt himself now , as he himself says in his Confessions , at a crucial point of his life . 
And that was why , on the day of the performance , when a carriage from the royal stables called to take him to the palace , he did not bother to shave . 
On the contrary , he was pleased that his face showed a neglect of several days . 
Seeing him in that condition , and about to enter the hall where the King , the Queen , the whole royal family and all the members of the highest aristocracy would be present , Grimm and the Abbe Raynal and others tried to stop him . 
`` You can't go in that way '' ! 
They cried . 
`` Why not '' ? 
Jean Jacques asked . 
`` Who is going to stop me '' ? 
`` You haven't dressed for the occasion '' ! 
They pointed out to him . 
`` I'm dressed as I always am '' , Rousseau said . 
`` Neither better nor worse '' . 
`` At home , yes '' , they argued . 
`` But here you are in the palace . 
There's the King . 
And Madame De Pompadour '' . 
`` If they are here , then surely I have the right to be here '' , Rousseau said . 
`` And even more right . 
Since I am the composer '' ! 
`` But in such a slovenly condition '' . 
`` What is slovenly about me '' ? 
Rousseau asked . 
`` Is it because of my slovenliness that hair grows on my face ? 
Surely it would grow there whether I washed myself or not . 
A hundred years ago I would have worn a beard with pride . 
And those without beards would have stood out as not dressed for the occasion . 
Now times have changed , and I must pretend that hair doesn't grow on my face . 
That's the fashion . 
And fashion is the real king here . 
Not Louis 15 , , since even he obeys . 
Now , if you don't mind , I should like to hear my own piece performed '' . 
But of course behind his boldness he didn't feel bold at all . 
He trembled lest his piece should fail . 
And this in addition to his usual fear of being among people of high society , his fear of making some inane or inappropriate remark . 
And even deeper than that : his fear lest in this closed hall he should suddenly itch to relieve himself . 
Could he walk out in the midst of his piece ? 
Here , before the court ? 
Before the King ? 
It was the first time any of us had laughed since the morning began . 
The rider from Concord was as good as his word . 
He came spurring and whooping down the road , his horse kicking up clouds of dust , shouting : `` They're a-coming ! 
By God , they're a-coming , they are '' ! 
We heard him before he ever showed , and we heard him yelling after he was out of sight . 
Solomon Chandler hadn't misjudged the strength of his lungs , not at all . 
I think you could have heard him a mile away , and he was bursting at every seam with importance . 
I have observed that being up on a horse changes the whole character of a man , and when a very small man is up on a saddle , he'd like as not prefer to eat his meals there . 
That's understandable , and I appreciate the sentiment . 
As for this rider , I never saw him before or afterwards and never saw him dismounted , so whether he stood tall or short in his shoes , I can't say ; ; but I do know that he gave the day tone and distinction . 
The last thing in the world that resembled a war was our line of farmers and storekeepers and mechanics perched on top of a stone wall , and this dashing rider made us feel a good deal sharper and more alert to the situation . 
We came down off the wall as if he had toppled all of us , and we crouched behind it . 
I have heard people talk with contempt about the British regulars , but that only proves that a lot of people talk about things of which they are deplorably ignorant . 
Whatever we felt about the redcoats , we respected them in terms of their trade , which was killing ; ; and I know that I , myself , was nauseated with apprehension and fear and that my hands were soaking wet where they held my gun . 
I wanted to wipe my flint , but I didn't dare to , the state my hands were in , just as I didn't dare to do anything about the priming . 
The gun would fire or not , just as chance willed . 
I put a lot more trust in my two legs than in the gun , because the most important thing I had learned about war was that you could run away and survive to talk about it . 
The gunfire , which was so near that it seemed just a piece up the road now , stopped for long enough to count to twenty ; ; and in that brief interval , a redcoat officer came tearing down the road , whipping his horse fit to kill . 
I don't know whether he was after our rider , who had gone by a minute before , or whether he was simply scouting conditions ; ; but when he passed us by , a musket roared , and he reared his horse , swung it around , and began to whip it back in the direction from which he had come . 
He was a fine and showy rider , but his skill was wasted on us . 
From above me and somewhere behind me , a rifle cracked . 
The redcoat officer collapsed like a punctured bolster , and the horse reared and threw him from the saddle , except that one booted foot caught in the stirrup . 
Half crazed by the weight dragging , the dust , and the heat , the horse leaped our wall , dashing out the rider's brains against it , and leaving him lying there among us -- while the horse crashed away through the brush . 
It was my initiation to war and the insane symphony war plays ; ; for what had happened on the common was only terror and flight ; ; but this grinning , broken head , not ten feet away from me , was the sharp definition of what my reality had become . 
And now the redcoats were coming , and the gunfire was a part of the dust cloud on the road to the west of us . 
I must state that the faster things happened , the slower they happened ; ; the passage and rhythm of time changed , and when I remember back to what happened then , each event is a separate and frozen incident . 
In my recollection , there was a long interval between the death of the officer and the appearance of the first of the retreating redcoats , and in that interval the dust cloud over the road seems to hover indefinitely . 
Yet it could not have been more than a matter of seconds , and then the front of the British army came into view . 
It was only hours since I had last seen them , but they had changed and I had changed . 
In the very front rank , two men were wounded and staggered along , trailing blood behind them . 
No drummers here , no pipers , and the red coats were covered with a fine film of dust . 
They marched with bayonets fixed , and as fixed on their faces was anger , fear , and torment . 
Rank after rank of them came down the road , and the faces were all the same , and they walked in a sea of dust . 
`` Committeemen , hold your fire ! 
Hold your fire '' ! 
A voice called , and what made it even more terrible and unreal was that the redcoat ranks never paused for an instant , only some of them glancing toward the stone wall , from behind which the voice came . 
The front of their column had already passed us , when another officer came riding down the side of the road , not five paces from where we were . 
My Cousin Simmons carried a musket , but he had loaded it with bird shot , and as the officer came opposite him , he rose up behind the wall and fired . 
One moment there was a man in the saddle ; ; the next a headless horror on a horse that bolted through the redcoat ranks , and during the next second or two , we all of us fired into the suddenly disorganized column of soldiers . 
One moment , the road was filled with disciplined troops , marching four by four with a purpose as implacable as death ; ; the next , a cloud of gun smoke covered a screaming fury of sound , out of which the redcoat soldiers emerged with their bayonets and their cursing fury . 
In the course of this , they had fired on us ; ; but I have no memory of that . 
I had squeezed the trigger of my own gun , and to my amazement , it had fired and kicked back into my shoulder with the force of an angry mule ; ; and then I was adding my own voice to the crescendo of sound , hurling more vile language than I ever thought I knew , sobbing and shouting , and aware that if I had passed water before , it was not enough , for my pants were soaking wet . 
I would have stood there and died there if left to myself , but Cousin Simmons grabbed my arm in his viselike grip and fairly plucked me out of there ; ; and then I came to some sanity and plunged away with such extraordinary speed that I outdistanced Cousin Simmons by far . 
Everyone else was running . 
Later we realized that the redcoats had stopped their charge at the wall . 
Their only hope of survival was to hold to the road and keep marching . 
We tumbled to a stop in Deacon Gordon's cow hole , a low-lying bit of pasture with a muddy pool of water in its middle . 
A dozen cows mooed sadly and regarded us as if we were insane , as perhaps we were at that moment , with the crazy excitement of our first encounter , the yelling and shooting still continuing up at the road , and the thirst of some of the men , which was so great that they waded into the muddy water and scooped up handfuls of it . 
Isaac Pitt , one of the men from Lincoln , had taken a musket ball in his belly ; ; and though he had found the strength to run with us , now he collapsed and lay on the ground , dying , the Reverend holding his head and wiping his hot brow . 
It may appear that we were cruel and callous , but no one had time to spend sympathizing with poor Isaac -- except the Reverend . 
I know that I myself felt that it was a mortal shame for a man to be torn open by a British musket ball , as Isaac had been , yet I also felt relieved and lucky that it had been him and not myself . 
I was drunk with excitement and the smell of gunpowder that came floating down from the road , and the fact that I was not afraid now , but only waiting to know what to do next . 
Meanwhile , I reloaded my gun , as the other men were doing . 
We were less than a quarter of a mile from the road , and we could trace its shape from the ribbon of powder smoke and dust that hung over it . 
Wherever you looked , you saw Committeemen running across the meadows , some away from the road , some toward it , some parallel to it ; ; and about a mile to the west a cluster of at least fifty Militia were making their way in our direction . 
Cousin Joshua and some others felt that we should march toward Lexington and take up new positions ahead of the slow-moving British column , but another group maintained that we should stick to this spot and this section of road . 
I didn't offer any advice , but I certainly did not want to go back to where the officer lay with his brains dashed out . 
Someone said that while we were standing here and arguing about it , the British would be gone ; ; but Cousin Simmons said he had watched them marching west early in the morning , and moving at a much brisker pace it had still taken half an hour for their column to pass , what with the narrowness of the road and their baggage and ammunition carts . 
While this was being discussed , we saw the militia to the west of us fanning out and breaking into little clusters of two and three men as they approached the road . 
It was the opinion of some of us that these must be part of the Committeemen who had been in the Battle of the North Bridge , which entitled them to a sort of veteran status , and we felt that if they employed this tactic , it was likely enough the best one . 
Mattathias Dover said : `` It makes sense . 
If we cluster together , the redcoats can make an advantage out of it , but there's not a blessed thing they can do with two or three of us except chase us , and we can outrun them '' . 
That settled it , and we broke into parties of two and three . 
Cousin Joshua Dover decided to remain with the Reverend and poor Isaac Pitt until life passed away -- and he was hurt so badly he did not seem for long in this world . 
I went off with Cousin Simmons , who maintained that if he didn't see to me , he didn't know who would . 
`` Good heavens , Adam '' , he said , `` I thought one thing you'd have no trouble learning is when to get out of a place '' . 
`` I learned that now '' , I said . 
We ran east for about half a mile before we turned back to the road , panting from the effort and soaked with sweat . 
There was a clump of trees that appeared to provide cover right up to the road , and the shouting and gunfire never slackened . 
Under the trees , there was a dead redcoat , a young boy with a pasty white skin and a face full of pimples , who had taken a rifle ball directly between the eyes . 
Three men were around him . 
They had stripped him of his musket and equipment , and now they were pulling his boots and jacket off . 
Cousin Simmons grabbed one of them by the shoulder and flung him away . 
`` God's name , what are you to rob the dead with the fight going on '' ! 
Cousin Simmons roared . 
They tried to outface him , but Joseph Simmons was as wide as two average men , and it would have taken braver men than these were to outface him . 
That summer the gambling houses were closed , despite the threats of Pierre Ameaux , a gaming-card manufacturer . 
Dancing was no longer permitted in the streets . 
The Bordel and other places of prostitution were emptied . 
The slit breeches had to go . 
Drunkenness was no longer tolerated . 
In defiance , a chinless reprobate , Jake Camaret , marched down the aisle in St. Peter's one Sunday morning , followed by one of the women from the Bordel , whose dress and walk plainly showed the lack of any shame . 
Plunking themselves down on the front bench , they turned to smirk at those around them . 
John's first impulse was to denounce their blasphemy . 
But the thought occurred that God would want this opportunity used to tell them about Him . 
Calmly he opened the Bible and read of the woman at the well . 
He finished the worship service as if there had been no brazen attempt to dishonor God and man . 
The next morning , as the clock struck nine , he appeared at the Council meeting in the Town Hall and insisted that the couple would have to be punished if the Church was to be respected . 
`` I have told you before , and I tell you again '' , Monsieur Favre said rudely . 
`` Stick to the preaching of the Gospel '' ! 
John stiffened in anger . 
`` That is the answer the ungodly will always make when the Church points its fingers at their sins . 
I say to you that the Church will ever decry evil '' ! 
John's reply was like a declaration of war . 
Monsieur Favre sat down in his high-backed stall , lips compressed , eyes glinting . 
Ablard Corne , a short man with a rotunda of stomach , rose . 
Every eye was on him as he began to speak . 
`` What Master Calvin says is true . 
How can we have a good city unless we respect morality '' ? 
Abel Poupin , a tall man with sunken cheeks and deep-set eyes , got to his feet . 
`` We all know that Jake Camaret and the woman are brazenly living together . 
It would be well to show the populace how we deal with adulterers '' . 
Philibert Berthelier , the son of the famous patriot , disagreed . 
`` Do not listen to that Frenchman . 
He is throttling the liberty my father gave his life to win '' ! 
John was quietly insistent . 
`` There can be no compromise when souls are in jeopardy '' . 
A week later the sentence of the Council was carried out : Jake Camaret and the woman were marched naked through the streets past a mocking populace . 
Before them stalked the beadle , proclaiming as he went , `` Thus the Council deals with those who break its laws -- adulterers , thieves , murderers , and lewd persons . 
Let evildoers contemplate their ways , and let every man beware '' ! 
John's thoughts raced painfully into the past as he read the letter he had just received from his sister Mary . 
Charles had died two weeks before , in early November , without being reconciled to the Church . 
The canons , in a body , had tried to force him on his deathbed to let them give him the last rites of the Church , but he had died still proclaiming salvation by faith . 
Burial had taken place at night in the ground at the public crossroads under the gibbet , so that his enemies could not find his body and have it dug up and burned . 
The Abbot of St. Eloi , Claude De Mommor , had been a good friend , but not even he thought Charles deserved burial in hallowed ground . 
John closed his eyes and saw once again the little niche in his mother's bedroom , where she had knelt to tell the good Virgin of her needs . 
The blue-draped Virgin was still there , but no one knelt before her now . 
Not even Varnessa ; ; she , too , prayed only to God . 
For an instant John longed for the sound of the bells of Noyon-la-Sainte , the touch of his mother's hand , the lilt of Charles's voice in the square raftered rooms , his father's bass tones rumbling to the canons , and the sight of the beloved bishop . 
But he had to follow the light . 
Unless God expected a man to believe the Holy Scriptures , why had He given them to him ? 
The white-clad trees stood like specters in the February night . 
Snow buried the streets and covered the slanting rooftops , as John trudged toward St. Peter's . 
A carriage crunched by , its dim lights filtering through the gloom . 
The sharp wind slapped at him and his feet felt like ice as the snow penetrated the holes of his shoes , his only ones , now patched with folded parchment . 
The city had recently given him a small salary , but it was not enough to supply even necessities . 
As he neared the square , a round figure muffled in a long , black cape whisked by . 
John recognized Ablard Corne and called out a greeting . 
How grateful he was to such men ! 
There were several on the Council who tried to live like Christians . 
Despite their efforts , the problems seemed to grow graver all the time . 
Quickening his steps , John entered the vast church and climbed the tower steps to the bells . 
Underneath the big one , in the silent moonlight , lay a dead pigeon , and on the smaller bell , the Clemence , two gray and white birds slept huddled together in the cold winter air . 
John leaned upon the stone balustrade . 
He brushed back his black hair , shoving it under his pastor's cap to keep it from blowing in his eyes . 
Below the moon-splashed world rolled away to insurmountable white peaks ; ; above him the deep blue sky glittered with stars . 
He stood very still , his arms at his sides , staring up at the heavens , then down at the blinking lights below . 
`` How long , my Lord ? 
How long ? 
I have never asked for an easy task , but I am weary of the strife '' . 
Sleep was difficult these days . 
Indigestion plagued him . 
Severe headaches were frequent . 
Loneliness tore through him like a physical pain whenever he thought of Peter Robert , Nerien , Nicholas Cop , Martin Bucer , and even the compromising Louis Du Tillet . 
An occasional traveler from Italy brought news of Peter Robert , who was now distributing his Bible among the Waldensian peasants . 
Letters came regularly from Nerien , Nicholas , and Martin . 
He had Anthony and William to confide in and consult . 
But William continued to find a bitter joy in smashing images and tearing down symbols sacred to the Old Church . 
John found it difficult , but he held him in check . 
And Anthony was busy most of the time courting this girl and that . 
His easy good looks made him a favorite with the ladies . 
Geneva , instead of becoming the City of God , as John had dreamed , had in the two years since he had been there , continued to be a godless place where all manner of vice flourished . 
Refugees poured in , signing the Confession and rules in order to remain , and then disregarding them . 
Dice rolled , prostitutes plied their trade , thieves stole , murderers stabbed , and the ungodly blasphemed . 
Catholics who were truly Christians longed for the simple penance of days gone by . 
Libertines recalled the heroism of the past and demanded : `` Are we going to allow the Protestant Pope , Master Calvin , to curtail our liberty ? 
Why , oh why , doesn't he stick to preaching the Gospel , instead of meddling in civic affairs , politics , economics , and social issues that are no concern of the Church '' ? 
And John's reply was always the same : `` Anything that affects souls is the concern of the Church ! 
We will have righteousness '' ! 
Tears burned behind his eyes as he prayed and meditated tonight . 
Unless the confusion cleared , he would not be coming here much longer . 
Monsieur Favre's threat would become a reality , for he continued to proclaim loudly that the city must rid itself of `` that Frenchman '' . 
The slow tapping of a cane on the stone steps coming up to the tower interrupted his reverie . 
Faint at first , the tapping grew until it sounded loud against the wind . 
Eli Corault ! 
John thought . 
What is he doing here at this hour ? 
He started down the steps to meet the near-blind preacher , who had been one of the early Gospelers in Paris . 
`` John ? 
Is that you ? 
I came to warn you of a plot '' ! 
John stood above him , his face ashen . 
What now ? 
Slowly , like a man grown old , he took Eli's hand and led him below to the tower study , guiding him to a chair beside the little hearth where a fire still burned . 
`` Plot '' ? 
John asked tiredly . 
`` Monsieur Favre just paid me a visit . 
I went to your rooms , and Anthony told me you were here . 
Two Anabaptists , Caroli and Benoit , are to challenge you and William to a debate before the Council . 
It is to be a trap . 
You know the law : if you lose the debate after accepting a challenge , you will be banished '' ! 
`` What will be the subject '' ? 
`` You are to be accused of Arianism to confuse the religious who remain loyal '' . 
Anger and fear fused in John . 
Ever since the fourth century a controversy had raged over the person of Christ . 
Those who refused to believe that He was the eternal Son of God were termed Arianists . 
Peter Caroli had come to Geneva , saying that he had been a bishop of the Church of Rome and had been persecuted in Paris for his Reformed faith . 
He asked to be appointed a preacher . 
But Michael Sept had unmasked him , revealing he had never been a bishop , but was an Anabaptist , afraid to state his faith , because he knew John Calvin had written a book against their belief that the soul slept after death . 
So John had refused to agree to his appointment as a preacher , and now Caroli sought revenge . 
John sighed . 
`` If William agrees , we should insist on a public debate '' , he said at length . 
`` There is more to the conspiracy . 
Bern demands that the Lord's Supper be administered here as it used to be , with unleavened bread . 
Furthermore , Bern decrees that we must do as we are ordered by the Council , preach only the word of God and stop meddling in politics '' ! 
`` It was always the spirit with Christ ; ; matters such as leavened or unleavened bread are inconsequential . 
Geneva must remain a sovereign state . 
We will not yield to the demands of Bern '' ! 
The firelight played over Eli's flowing white locks and rugged features . 
`` Monsieur Favre indicated that if I would co-operate , after you and William are banished , following the debate , I will be given a place of influence '' . 
`` What was your reply to that '' ? 
`` That I would rather be banished with two such Christians than be made the Chief Syndic '' ! 
The following morning , as John entered the Place Molard on his way to visit a sick refugee , he had a premonition of danger . 
Then suddenly a group of men and dogs circled him . 
He wanted to run , but he knew that if he did , he would be lost . 
He stood very still , his heart thumping wildly . 
On the outskirts of the rabble the Camaret brothers and Gaspard Favre shook their fists . 
`` Are you going to comply with the demands of Bern '' ? 
The chinless Jake called . 
`` Arianist '' ! 
A rowdy with a big blob of a nose roared . 
`` Heretic '' ! 
John lifted his hand for silence . 
`` Know this : the ministers will not yield to the demands of Bern '' . 
His voice shook a little . 
Somebody heaved a stone . 
For an instant John was stunned . 
When he felt the side of his head , his fingers came away covered with blood . 
Before he could duck , another stone struck him . 
And another . 
`` Let him be now '' ! 
Pierre Ameaux , the gaming-card manufacturer said , his little pig eyes glaring . 
`` We have taught him a lesson '' . 
The crowd moved back and John started dizzily down the hill . 
Fists pummeled him as he staggered forward . 
Then he slipped and went down on his hands and knees in the melting snow . 
At once a bevy of dogs was snapping and snarling around him . 
One , more horrible than the rest , lunged , growling deep in his throat , his hair bristling . 
With great difficulty John clambered to his feet and started to run , sweat pouring down his face . 
Standing in the shelter of the tent -- a rejected hospital tent on which the rain now dripped , no longer drumming -- Adam watched his own hands touch the objects on the improvised counter of boards laid across two beer barrels . 
There was , of course , no real need to rearrange everything . 
A quarter inch this way or that for the hardbake , or the toffee , or the barley sugar , or the sardines , or the bitters , or the condensed milk , or the stationery , or the needles -- what could it mean ? 
Adam watched his own hands make the caressing , anxious movement that , when rain falls and nobody comes , and ruin draws close like a cat rubbing against the ankles , has been the ritual of stall vendors , forever . 
He recognized the gesture . 
He knew its meaning . 
He had seen a dry , old , yellowing hand reach out , with that painful solicitude , to touch , to rearrange , to shift aimlessly , some object worth a pfennig . 
Back in Bavaria he had seen that gesture , and at that sight his heart had always died within him . 
On such occasions he had not had the courage to look at the face above the hand , whatever face it might be . 
Now the face was his own . 
He wondered what expression , as he made that gesture , was on his face . 
He wondered if it wore the old anxiety , or the old , taut stoicism . 
But there was no need , he remembered , for his hand to reach out , for his face to show concern or stoicism . 
It was nothing to him if rain fell and nobody came . 
Then why was he assuming the role -- the gesture and the suffering ? 
What was he expiating ? 
Or was he now taking the role -- the gesture and the suffering -- because it was the only way to affirm his history and identity in the torpid , befogged loneliness of this land . 
This was Virginia . 
He looked out of the tent at the company street . 
The rain dripped on the freezing loblolly of the street . 
Beyond that misty gray of the rain , he saw the stretching hutment , low diminutive log cabins , chinked with mud , with doorways a man would have to crouch to get through , with roofs of tenting laid over boughs or boards from hardtack boxes , or fence rails , with cranky chimneys of sticks and dried mud . 
The chimney of the hut across from him was surmounted by a beef barrel with ends knocked out . 
In this heavy air , however , that device did not seem to help . 
The smoke from that chimney rose as sluggishly as smoke from any other , and hung as sadly in the drizzle , creeping back down along the sopping canvas of the roof . 
Over the door was a board with large , inept lettering : home sweet home . 
This was the hut of Simms Purdew , the hero . 
The men were huddled in those lairs . 
Adam knew the names of some . 
He knew the faces of all , hairy or shaven , old or young , fat or thin , suffering or hardened , sad or gay , good or bad . 
When they stood about his tent , chaffing each other , exchanging their obscenities , cursing command or weather , he had studied their faces . 
He had had the need to understand what life lurked behind the mask of flesh , behind the oath , the banter , the sadness . 
Once covertly looking at Simms Purdew , the only man in the world whom he hated , he had seen the heavy , slack , bestubbled jaw open and close to emit the cruel , obscene banter , and had seen the pale-blue eyes go watery with whisky and merriment , and suddenly he was not seeing the face of that vile creature . 
He was seeing , somehow , the face of a young boy , the boy Simms Purdew must once have been , a boy with sorrel hair , and blue eyes dancing with gaiety , and the boy mouth grinning trustfully among the freckles . 
In that moment of vision Adam heard the voice within himself saying : I must not hate him , I must not hate him or I shall die . 
His heart suddenly opened to joy . 
He thought that if once , only once , he could talk with Simms Purdew , something about his own life , and all life , would be clear and simple . 
If Simms Purdew would turn to him and say : `` Adam , you know when I was a boy , it was a funny thing happened . 
Lemme tell you now '' -- If only Simms Purdew could do that , whatever the thing he remembered and told . 
It would be a sign for the untellable , and he , Adam , would understand . 
Now , Adam , in the gray light of afternoon , stared across at the hut opposite his tent , and thought of Simms Purdew lying in there in the gloom , snoring on his bunk , with the fumes of whisky choking the air . 
He saw the sign above the door of the hut : home sweet home . 
He saw the figure of a man in a poncho coming up the company street , with an armful of wood . 
It was Pullen James , the campmate of Simms Purdew . 
He carried the wood , carried the water , did the cooking , cleaning and mending , and occasionally got a kick in the butt for his pains . 
Adam watched the moisture flow from the poncho . 
It gave the rubberized fabric a dull gleam , like metal . 
Pullen James humbly lowered his head , pushed aside the hardtack-box door of the hut , and was gone from sight . 
Adam stared at the door and remembered that Simms Purdew had been awarded the Medal of Honor for gallantry at Antietam . 
The street was again empty . 
The drizzle was slacking off now , but the light was grayer . 
With enormous interest , Adam watched his hands as they touched and shifted the objects on the board directly before him . 
Into the emptiness of the street , and his spirit , moved a form . 
The form was swathed in an army blanket , much patched , fastened at the neck with a cord . 
From under the shapeless huddle of blanket the feet moved in the mud . 
The feet wore army shoes , in obvious disrepair . 
The head was wrapped in a turban and on top of the turban rode a great hamper across which a piece of poncho had been flung . 
The gray face stared straight ahead in the drizzle . 
Moisture ran down the cheeks , gathered at the tip of the nose , and at the chin . 
The figure was close enough now for him to see the nose twitching to dislodge the drop clinging there . 
The figure stopped and one hand was perilously freed from the hamper to scratch the nose . 
Then the figure moved on . 
This was one of the Irish women who had built their own huts down near the river . 
They did washing . 
Adam recognized this one . 
He recognized her because she was the one who , in a winter twilight , on the edge of camp , had once stopped him and reached down her hand to touch his fly . 
`` Slice o' mutton , bhoy '' ? 
She had queried in her soft guttural . 
`` Slice o' mutton '' ? 
Her name was Mollie . 
They called her Mollie the Mutton , and laughed . 
Looking down the street after her , Adam saw that she had again stopped and again removed one hand from the basket . 
He could not make out , but he knew that again she was scratching her nose . 
Mollie the Mutton was scratching her nose . 
The words ran crazily in his head : Mollie the Mutton is scratching her nose in the rain . 
Then the words fell into a pattern : `` Mollie the Mutton is scratching her nose , Scratching her nose in the rain . 
Mollie the Mutton is scratching her nose in the rain '' . 
The pattern would not stop . 
It came again and again . 
He felt trapped in that pattern , in the repetition . 
Suddenly he thought he might weep . 
`` What's the matter with me '' ? 
He demanded out loud . 
He looked wildly around , at the now empty street , at the mud , at the rain . 
`` Oh , what's the matter with me '' ? 
He demanded . 
When he had stored his stock in the great oak chest , locked the two big hasps and secured the additional chain , tied the fly of the tent , and picked up the cash box , he moved up the darkening street . 
He would consign the cash box into the hands of Jed Hawksworth , then stand by while his employer checked the contents and the list of items sold . 
Then he -- Then what ? 
He did not know . 
His mind closed on that prospect , as though fog had descended to blot out a valley . 
Far off , in the dusk , he heard voices singing , muffled but strong . 
In one of the huts a group of men were huddled together , singing . 
He stopped . 
He strained to hear . 
He heard the words : `` Rock of Ages , cleft for me , Let me hide myself in Thee ! 
Let the water and the blood From Thy riven side flow ! 
'' He thought : I am a Jew from Bavaria . 
He was standing there , he thought , in Virginia , in the thickening dusk , in a costly greatcoat that had belonged to another Jew . 
That other Jew , a young man too , had left that greatcoat behind , in a rich house , and marched away . 
He had crossed the river which now , beyond the woods yonder , was sliding darkly under the mist . 
He had plunged into the dark woods beyond . 
He had died there . 
What had that man , that other young Jew , felt as he stood in the twilight and heard other men , far away , singing together ? 
Adam thought of the hutments , regiment after regiment , row after row , the thousands of huts , stretching away into the night . 
He thought of the men , the nameless thousands , huddling in them . 
He thought of Simms Purdew snoring on his bunk while Pullen James crouched by the hearth , skirmishing an undershirt for lice , and a wet log sizzled . 
He thought of Simms Purdew , who once had risen at the edge of a cornfield , a maniacal scream on his lips , and swung a clubbed musket like a flail to beat down the swirl of Rebel bayonets about him . 
He thought of Simms Purdew rising up , fearless in glory . 
He felt the sweetness of pity flood through him , veining his very flesh . 
Those men , lying in the huts , they did not know . 
They did not know who they were or know their own worth . 
In the pity for them his loneliness was gone . 
Then he thought of Aaron Blaustein standing in his rich house saying : `` God is tired of taking the blame . 
He is going to let History take the blame for a while '' . 
He thought of the old man laughing under the glitter of the great chandelier . 
He thought : Only in my heart can I make the world hang together . 
Adam rose from the crouch necessary to enter the hut . 
He saw Mose squatting by the hearth , breaking up hardtack into a pan . 
A pot was boiling on the coals . 
`` Gonna give Ole Buckra all his money '' ? 
Mose asked softly . 
Adam nodded . 
`` Yeah '' , Mose murmured , `` yeah . 
And look what he done give us '' . 
Adam looked at the pot . 
`` What is it '' ? 
He asked . 
`` Chicken '' , Mose said , and theatrically licked his lips . 
`` Gre't big fat chicken , yeah '' . 
He licked his lips again . 
Then : `` yeah . 
A chicken with six tits and a tail lak a corkscrew . 
And it squealed for slop '' . 
Mose giggled . 
`` Fooled you , huh ? 
It is the same ole same , tell me its name . 
It is sowbelly with tits on . 
It is salt po'k . 
It is salt po'k and skippers . 
That po'k , it was so full of skippers it would jump and run and not come when you say , hoo-pig . 
Had to put my foot on it to hole it down while I cut it up fer the lob-scuse '' . 
He dumped the pan of crumbled hardtack into the boiling pot of lobscouse . 
`` Good ole lob-scuse '' , he mumbled , and stirred the pot . 
He stopped stirring and looked over his shoulder . 
`` Know what Ole Buckra et tonight '' ? 
He demanded . 
`` Know what I had to fix fer Ole Him '' ? 
Adam shook his head . 
`` Chicken '' , Mose said . 
She was a child too much a part of her environment , too eager to grow and learn and experience . 
Once , they were at Easthampton for the summer ( again , Fritzie said , a good place , even though they were being robbed ) . 
One soft evening -- that marvelous sea-blessed time when the sun's departing warmth lingers and a smell of spume and wrack haunts everything -- Amy had picked herself off the floor and begun to walk . 
Fritzie was on the couch reading ; ; Laura was sitting in an easy chair about eight feet away . 
The infant , in white terry-cloth bathrobe , her face intense and purposeful , had essayed a few wobbly steps toward her father . 
`` Y'all wanna walk -- walk '' , he said . 
Then , gently , he shoved her behind toward Laura . 
Amy walked -- making it halfway across the cottage floor . 
She lost not a second , picking herself up and continuing her pilgrimage to Laura . 
Then Laura took her gently and shoved her off again , toward Fritzie : Amy did not laugh -- this was work , concentration , achievement . 
In a few minutes she was making the ten-foot hike unaided ; ; soon she was parading around the house , flaunting her new skill . 
Some liar's logic , a wisp of optimism as fragile as the scent of tropical blossoms that came through the window ( a euphoria perhaps engendered by the pill Fritzie had given her ) , consoled her for a moment . 
Amy had to be safe , had to come back to them -- if only to reap that share of life's experiences that were her due , if only to give her parents another chance to do better by her . 
Through the swathings of terror , she jabbed deceit's sharp point -- Amy would be reborn , a new child , with new parents , living under new circumstances . 
The comfort was short-lived , yet she found herself returning to the assurance whenever her imagination forced images on her too awful to contemplate without the prop of illusion . 
Gazing at her husband's drugged body , his chest rising and falling in mindless rhythms , she saw the grandeur of his fictional world , that lush garden from which he plucked flowers and herbs . 
She envied him . 
She admired him . 
In the darkness , she saw him stirring . 
He seemed to be muttering , his voice surprisingly clear . 
`` Y'all should have let me take that money out '' , Andrus said . 
`` 'nother minute I'd have been fine . 
H'all should have let me do it '' . 
Laura touched his hand . 
`` Yes , I know , Fritzie . 
I should have '' . 
Tuesday The heat intensified on Tuesday . 
Southern California gasped and blinked under an autumn hot spell , drier , more enervating , more laden with man's contrived impurities than the worst days of the summer past . 
It could continue this way , hitting 106 and more in the Valley , Joe McFeeley knew , into October . 
He and Irvin Moll were sipping coffee at the breakfast bar . 
Both had been up since 7:00 -- Irv on the early-morning watch , McFeeley unable to sleep during his four-hour relief . 
The night before , they had telephoned the Andrus maid , Selena Masters , and she had arrived early , bursting her vigorous presence into the silent house with an assurance that amused McFeeley and confounded Moll . 
The latter , thanking her for the coffee , had winked and muttered , `` Sure 'nuff , honey '' . 
Selena was the wrong woman for these crudities . 
With a hard eye , she informed Moll : `` Don't sure 'nuff me , officer . 
I'm honey only to my husband , understand '' ? 
Sergeant Moll understood . 
The maid was very black and very energetic , trim in a yellow pique uniform . 
Her speech was barren of southernisms ; ; she was one of Eliot Sparling's neutralized minorities , adopting the rolling R's and constricted vowels of Los Angeles . 
Not seeing her dark intelligent face , one would have gauged the voice as that of a Westwood Village matron , ten years out of Iowa . 
After she had served the detectives coffee and toast ( they politely declined eggs , uncomfortable about their tenancy ) , she settled down with a morning newspaper and began reading the stock market quotations . 
While she was thus engaged , McFeeley questioned her about her whereabouts the previous day , any recollections she had of people hanging around , of overcurious delivery boys or repairmen , of strange cars cruising the neighborhood . 
She answered him precisely , missing not a beat in her scrutiny of the financial reports . 
Selena Masters , Joe realized , was her own woman . 
She was the only kind of Negro Laura Andrus would want around : independent , unservile , probably charging double what ordinary maids did for housework -- and doubly efficient . 
When the parents emerged from the bedroom a few minutes later , the maid greeted them quietly . 
`` I'm awful sorry about what's happened '' , Selena said . 
`` Maybe today'll be a good-news day '' . 
She charged off to the bedrooms . 
Moll took his coffee into the nursery . 
During the night , a phone company technician had deadened the bells and installed red blinkers on the phones . 
Someone would have to remain in the office continually . 
McFeeley greeted the parents , then studied his notebook . 
He wanted to take the mother to headquarters at once and start her on the mug file . 
`` Sleep well '' ? 
He asked . 
Andrus did not answer him . 
His face was bloated with drugging , redder than normal . 
The woman had the glassy look of an invalid , as if she had not slept at all . 
`` Oh -- we managed '' , she said . 
`` I'm a little groggy . 
Did anything happen during the night '' ? 
`` Few crank calls '' , McFeeley said . 
`` A couple of tips we're running down -- nothing promising . 
We can expect more of the same . 
Too bad your number is in the directory '' . 
`` Didn't occur to me my child would be kidnaped when I had it listed '' , Andrus muttered . 
He settled on the sofa with his coffee , warming his hands on the cup , although the room was heavy with heat . 
The three had little to say to each other . 
The previous night's horror -- the absolute failure , overcast with the intrusions of the press , had left them all with a wan sense of uselessness , of play-acting . 
Sipping their coffee , discussing the weather , the day's shopping , Fritzie's commitments at the network ( all of which he would cancel ) , they avoided the radio , the morning TV news show , even the front page of the Santa Luisa Register , resting on the kitchen bar . 
Kidnaper spurns ransom ; ; Amy still missing . 
Once , Andrus walked by it , hastily scanned the bold black headline and the five-column lead of the article ( by Duane Bosch , staff correspondent -- age not given ) , and muttered : `` We a buncha national celebrities '' . 
McFeeley told the parents he would escort them to police headquarters in a half hour . 
Before that , he wanted to talk to the neighbors . 
He did not want to bring the Andruses to the station house too early -- Rheinholdt had summoned a press conference , and he didn't want them subjected to the reporters again . 
He could think of nothing else to tell them : no assurances , no hopeful hints at great discoveries that day . 
When the detective left , Andrus phoned his secretary to cancel his work and to advise the network to get a substitute director for his current project . 
Mrs. Andrus was talking to the maid , arranging for her to come in every day , instead of the four days she now worked . 
Outside , only a handful of reporters remained . 
The bulk of the press corps was covering Rheinholdt's conference . 
In contrast to the caravan of the previous night , there were only four cars parked across the street . 
Two men he did not recognize were sipping coffee and munching sweet rolls . 
He did not see Sparling , or DeGroot , or Ringel , or any of the feverish crew that had so harassed him twelve hours ago . 
However , the litter remained , augmented by several dozen lunchroom suppers . 
The street cleaner had not yet been around . 
One of the reporters called to him : `` Anything new , Lieutenant '' ? 
And he ignored him , skirting the parked cars and walking up the path to the Skopas house . 
When McFeeley was halfway to the door , the proprietor emerged -- a mountainous , dark man , his head thick with resiny black hair , his eyes like two of the black olives he imported in boatloads . 
McFeeley identified himself . 
The master of the house , his nourished face unrevealing , consented to postpone his departure a few minutes to talk to the detective . 
Inside , as soon as Mr. Skopas had disclosed -- in a hoarse whisper -- the detective's errand , his family gathered in a huddle , forming a mass of dark flesh on and around a brocaded sofa which stood at one side of a baroque fireplace . 
Flanked by marble urns and alabaster lamps , they seemed to be posing for a tribal portrait . 
It was amazing how they had herded together for protection : an enormous matriarch in a quilted silk wrapper , rising from the breakfast table ; ; a gross boy in his teens , shuffling in from the kitchen with a sandwich in his hands ; ; a girl in her twenties , fat and sullen , descending the marble staircase ; ; then all four gathering on the sofa to face the inquisitor . 
They answered him in monosyllables , nods , occasionally muttering in Greek to one another , awaiting the word from Papa , who restlessly cracked his knuckles , anxious to stuff himself into his white Cadillac and burst off to the freeway . 
No , they hadn't seen anyone around ; ; no , they didn't know the Andrus family ; ; yes , they had read about the case ; ; yes , they had let some reporters use their phone , but they would no longer . 
They offered no opinions , volunteered nothing , betrayed no emotions . 
Studying them , McFeeley could not help make comparison with the Andrus couple . 
The Skopas people seemed to him of that breed of human beings whose insularity frees them from tragedy . 
He imagined they were the kind whose tax returns were never examined ( if they were , they were never penalized ) , whose children had no unhappy romances , whose names never knew scandal . 
The equation was simple : wealth brought them happiness , and their united front to the world was their warning that they meant to keep everything they had , let no one in on the secrets . 
By comparison , Fritzie and Laura Andrus were quivering fledglings . 
They possessed no outer fortifications , no hard shells of confidence ; ; they had enough difficulty getting from day to day , let alone having an awful crime thrust upon them . 
Skopas expressed no curiosity over the case , offered no expression of sympathy , made no move to escort McFeely to the door . 
All four remained impacted on the sofa until he had left . 
He had spoken to Mrs. . 
Emerson the previous day . 
There remained a family named Kahler , owners of a two-story Tudor-style house on the south side of the Andrus home . 
Their names had not come up in any discussions with Laura , and he had no idea what they would be like . 
McFeeley noted the immaculate lawn and gardens : each blade of grass cropped , bright and firm ; ; each shrub glazed with good health . 
The door was answered by a slender man in his sixties -- straight-backed , somewhat clerical in manner , wearing rimless glasses . 
When Joe identified himself , he nodded , unsmiling , and ushered him into a sedate living room . 
Mrs. Kahler joined them . 
She had a dried-out quality -- a gray , lean woman , not unattractive . 
Both were dressed rather formally . 
The man wore a vest and a tie , the woman had on a dark green dress and three strands of pearls . 
`` Funny thing '' , Mr. Kahler said , when they were seated , `` when I heard you ringing , I figured it was that guy down the block , Hausman '' . 
McFeeley looked puzzled . 
Kahler continued : `` I fixed his dog the other day and I guess he's sore , so I expected him to come barging in '' . 
Mr. Kahler went on to explain how Hausman's fox terrier had been `` making '' in his flower beds . 
The dog refused to be scared off , so Kahler had purchased some small firecrackers . 
He would lay in wait in the garage , and when the terrier came scratching around , he'd let fly with a cherry bomb . 
`` Scared the hell out of him '' , Kahler grinned . 
`` I hit him in the ass once '' . 
Both grinned at the detective . 
`` Finally , all I needed was to throw a little piece of red wood that looked like a firecracker and that dumb dog would run ki-yi-ing for his life '' . 
In the dim underwater light they dressed and straightened up the room , and then they went across the hall to the kitchen . 
She was intimidated by the stove . 
He found the pilot light and turned on one of the burners for her . 
The gas flamed up two inches high . 
They found the teakettle . 
And put water on to boil and then searched through the icebox . 
Several sections of a loaf of dark bread ; ; butter ; ; jam ; ; a tiny cake of ice . 
In their search for what turned out to be the right breakfast china but the wrong table silver , they opened every cupboard door in the kitchen and pantry . 
While she was settling the teacart , he went back across the hall to their bedroom , opened one of the suitcases , and took out powdered coffee and sugar . 
She appeared with the teacart and he opened the windows . 
`` Do you want to call Eugene '' ? 
He didn't , but it was not really a question , and so he left the room , walked down the hall to the front of the apartment , hesitated , and then knocked lightly on the closed door of the study . 
A sleepy voice answered . 
`` Le petit dejeuner '' , Harold said , in an accent that did credit to Miss Sloan , his high-school French teacher . 
At the same time , his voice betrayed uncertainty about their being here , and conveyed an appeal to whatever is reasonable , peace-loving , and dependable in everybody . 
Since ordinary breakfast-table conversation was impossible , it was at least something that they were able to offer Eugene the sugar bowl with their sugar in it , and the plate of bread and butter , and that Eugene could return the pitcher of hot milk to them handle first . 
Eugene put a spoonful of powdered coffee into his cup and then filled it with hot water . 
Stirring , he said : `` I am sorry that my work prevents me from doing anything with you today '' . 
They assured him that they did not expect or need to be entertained . 
Harold put a teaspoonful of powdered coffee in his cup and filled it with hot water , and then , stirring , he sat back in his chair . 
The chair creaked . 
Every time he moved or said something , the chair creaked again . 
Eugene was not entirely silent , or openly rude -- unless asking Harold to move to another chair and placing himself in the fauteuil that creaked so alarmingly was an act of rudeness . 
It went right on creaking under his own considerable weight , and all it needed , Harold thought , was for somebody to fling himself back in a fit of laughter and that would be the end of it . 
Through the open window they heard sounds below in the street : cartwheels , a tired horse's plodding step , voices . 
Harold indicated the photograph on the wall and asked what church the stone sculpture was in . 
Eugene told him and he promptly forgot . 
They passed the marmalade , the bread , the black-market butter , back and forth . 
Nothing was said about hotels or train journeys . 
Eugene offered Harold his car , to use at any time he cared to , and when this offer was not accepted , the armchair creaked . 
They all three had another cup of coffee . 
Eugene was in his pajamas and dressing gown , and on his large feet he wore yellow Turkish slippers that turned up at the toes . 
`` Excuse me '' , he said in Berlitz English , and got up and left them , to bathe and dress . 
The first shrill ring of the telephone brought Harold out into the hall . 
He realized that he had no idea where the telephone was . 
At that moment the bathroom door flew open and Eugene came out , with his face lathered for shaving , and strode down the hall , tying the sash of his dressing gown as he went . 
The telephone was in the study but the ringing came from the hall . 
Between the telephone and the wall plug there was sixty feet of cord , and when the conversation came to an end , Eugene carried the instrument with him the whole length of the apartment , to his bathroom , where it rang three more times while he was shaving and in the tub . 
Before he left the apartment he knocked on their door and asked if there was anything he could do for them . 
Harold shook his head . 
`` Sabine called a few minutes ago '' , Eugene said . 
`` She wants you and Barbara to have dinner with her tomorrow night '' . 
He handed Harold a key to the front door , and cautioned him against leaving it unlocked while they were out of the apartment . 
When enough time had elapsed so that there was little likelihood of his returning for something he had forgotten , Harold went out into the hall and stood looking into one room after another . 
In the room next to theirs was a huge cradle , of mahogany , ornately carved and decorated with gold leaf . 
It was the most important-looking cradle he had ever seen . 
Then came their bathroom , and then a bedroom that , judging by the photographs on the walls , must belong to Mme Cestre . 
A young woman who looked like Alix , with her two children . 
Alix and Eugene on their wedding day . 
Matching photographs in oval frames of Mme Bonenfant and an elderly man who must be Alix's grandfather . 
Mme Vienot , considerably younger and very different . 
The schoolboy . 
And a gray-haired man whose glance -- direct , lifelike , and mildly accusing -- was contradicted by the gilt and black frame . 
It was the kind of frame that is only put around the photograph of a dead person . 
Professor Cestre , could it be ? 
With the metal shutters closed , the dining room was so dark that it seemed still night in there . 
One of the drawing-room shutters was partly open and he made out the shapes of chairs and sofas , which seemed to be upholstered in brown or russet velvet . 
The curtains were of the same material , and there were some big oil paintings -- portraits in the style of Lancret and Boucher . 
Though , taken individually , the big rooms were , or seemed to be , square , the apartment as a whole formed a triangle . 
The apex , the study where Eugene slept , was light and bright and airy and cheerful . 
The window looked out on the Place Redoute -- it was the only window of the apartment that did . 
Looking around slowly , he saw a marble fireplace , a desk , a low bookcase of mahogany with criss-crossed brass wire instead of glass panes in the doors . 
The daybed Eugene had slept in , made up now with its dark-brown velours cover and pillows . 
The portable record player with a pile of classical records beside it . 
Beethoven's Fifth was the one on top . 
Da-da-da-dum Music could not be Eugene's passion . 
Besides , the records were dusty . 
He tried the doors of the bookcase . 
Locked . 
The titles he could read easily through the criss-crossed wires : works on theology , astral physics , history , biology , political science . 
No poetry . 
No novels . 
He moved over to the desk and stood looking at the papers on it but not touching anything . 
The clock on the mantel piece was scandalized and ticked so loudly that he glanced at it over his shoulder and then quickly left the room . 
The concierge called out to them as they were passing through the foyer . 
Her quarters were on the right as you walked into the building , and her small front room was clogged with heavy furniture -- a big , round , oak dining table and chairs , a buffet , with a row of unclaimed letters inserted between the mirror and its frame . 
The suitcases had come while they were out , and had been put in their room , the concierge said . 
He waited until they were inside the elevator and then said : `` Now what do we do '' ? 
`` Call the Vouillemont , I guess '' . 
`` I guess '' . 
Rather than sit around waiting for the suitcases to be delivered , they had gone sight-seeing . 
They went to the Flea Market , expecting to find the treasures of Europe , and found instead a duplication of that long double row of booths in Tours . 
Cheap clothing and junk of every sort , as far as the eye could see . 
They looked , even so . 
Looked at everything . 
Barbara bought some cotton aprons , and Harold bought shoestrings . 
They had lunch at a sidewalk cafe overlooking the intersection of two broad , busy , unpicturesque streets , and coming home they got lost in the Metro ; ; it took them over an hour to get back to the station where they should have changed , in order to take the line that went to the Place Redoute . 
It was the end of the afternoon when he took the huge key out of his pocket and inserted it into the keyhole . 
When he opened the door , there stood Eugene , on his way out of the apartment . 
He was wearing sneakers and shorts and an open-collared shirt , and in his hand he carried a little black bag . 
He did not explain where he was going , and they did not ask . 
Instead , they went on down the hall to their room . 
`` Do you think he could be having an affair '' ? 
Barbara asked , as they heard the front door close . 
`` Oh no '' , Harold said , shocked . 
`` Well , this is France , after all '' . 
`` I know , but there must be some other explanation . 
He's probably spending the evening with friends '' . 
`` And for that he needs a little bag '' ? 
They went shopping in the neighborhood , and bought two loaves of bread with the ration coupons they had been given in Blois , and some cheese , and a dozen eggs , and a bag of oranges from a peddler in the Place Redoute -- the first oranges they had seen since they landed . 
They had Vermouth , sitting in front of a cafe . 
When they got home Harold was grateful for the stillness in the apartment , and thought how , under different circumstances , they might have stayed on here , in these old-fashioned , high-ceilinged rooms that reminded him of the Irelands' apartment in the East Eighties . 
They could have been perfectly happy here for ten whole days . 
He went down the hall to Eugene's bathroom , to turn on the hot-water heater , and on the side of the tub he saw a pair of blue wool swimming trunks . 
He felt them . 
They were damp . 
He reached out and felt the bath towel hanging on the towel rack over the tub . 
Damp also . 
He looked around the room and then called out : `` Come here , quick '' ? 
`` What is it '' ? 
Barbara asked , standing in the doorway . 
`` I've solved the mystery of the little bag . 
There it is and there is what was in it . 
But where do people go swimming in Paris ? 
That boat in the river , maybe '' . 
`` What boat '' ? 
`` There's a big boat anchored near the Place De La Concorde , with a swimming pool in it -- didn't you notice it ? 
But if he has time to go swimming , he had time to be with us '' . 
She looked at him in surprise . 
`` I know '' , he said , reading her mind . 
`` I don't know what I'm going to do with you '' . 
`` It's because we are in France '' , he said , `` and know so few people . 
So something like this matters more than it would at home . 
Also , he was so nice when he was nice '' . 
`` All because I didn't feel like dancing '' . 
`` I don't think it was that , really '' . 
`` Then what was it '' ? 
`` I don't know . 
I wish I did . 
The tweed coat , maybe . 
The thing about Eugene is that he's very proud '' . 
And the thing about hurt feelings , the wet bathing suit pointed out , is that the person who has them is not quite the innocent party he believes himself to be . 
For instance -- what about all those people Harold Rhodes went toward unhesitatingly , as if this were the one moment they would ever have together , their one chance of knowing each other ? 
Fortunately , the embarrassing questions raised by objects do not need to be answered , or we would all have to go sleep in the open fields . 
And in any case , answers may clarify but they do not change anything . 
He brought with him a mixture of myrrh and aloes , of about a hundred pounds' weight . 
They took Jesus's body , then , and wrapped it in winding-clothes with the spices ; ; that is how the Jews prepare a body for burial . 
Listed as present at the Descent were Mary , Mary's sister , Mary Magdalene , John , Joseph of Arimathea , Nicodemus . 
Search as he might , he could find no place where the Bible spoke of a moment when Mary could have been alone with Jesus . 
Mostly the scene was crowded with mourners , such as the dramatic Dell'Arca Lamentation in Bologna , where the grief-stricken spectators had usurped Mary's last poignant moment . 
In his concept there could be no one else present . 
His first desire was to create a mother and son alone in the universe . 
When might Mary have had that moment to hold her child on her lap ? 
Perhaps after the soldiers had laid him on the ground , while Joseph of Arimathea was at Pontius Pilate's asking for Christ's body , Nicodemus was gathering his mixture of myrrh and aloes , and the others had gone home to mourn . 
Those who saw his finished Pieta would take the place of the biblical witnesses . 
They would feel what Mary was undergoing . 
There would be no halos , no angels . 
These would be two human beings , whom God had chosen . 
He felt close to Mary , having spent so long concentrating on the beginning of her journey . 
Now she was intensely alive , anguished ; ; her son was dead . 
Even though he would later be resurrected , he was at this moment dead indeed , the expression on his face reflecting what he had gone through on the cross . 
In his sculpture therefore it would not be possible for him to project anything of what Jesus felt for his mother ; ; only what Mary felt for her son . 
Jesus' inert body would be passive , his eyes closed . 
Mary would have to carry the human communication . 
This seemed right to him . 
It was a relief to shift in his mind to technical problems . 
Since his Christ was to be life size , how was Mary to hold him on her lap without the relationship seeming ungainly ? 
His Mary would be slender of limb and delicate of proportion , yet she must hold this full-grown man as securely and convincingly as she would a child . 
There was only one way to accomplish this : by design , by drawing diagrams and sketches in which he probed the remotest corner of his mind for creative ideas to carry his concept . 
He started by making free sketches to loosen up his thinking so that images would appear on paper . 
Visually , these approximated what he was feeling within himself . 
At the same time he started walking the streets , peering at the people passing or shopping at the stalls , storing up fresh impressions of what they looked like , how they moved . 
In particular he sought the gentle , sweet-faced nuns , with head coverings and veils coming to the middle of their foreheads , remembering their expressions until he reached home and set them down on paper . 
Discovering that draperies could be designed to serve structural purposes , he began a study of the anatomy of folds . 
He improvised as he went along , completing a life-size clay figure , then bought yards of an inexpensive material from a draper , wet the lightweight cloth in a basin and covered it over with clay that Argiento brought from the bank of the Tiber , to the consistency of thick mud . 
No fold could be accidental , each turn of the drapery had to serve organically , to cover the Madonna's slender legs and feet so that they would give substantive support to Christ's body , to intensify her inner turmoil . 
When the cloth dried and stiffened , he saw what adjustments had to be made . 
`` So that's sculpture '' , commented Argiento wryly , when he had sluiced down the floor for a week , `` making mud pies '' . 
Michelangelo grinned . 
`` See , Argiento , if you control the way these folds are bunched , like this , or made to flow , you can enrich the body attitudes . 
They can have as much tactile appeal as flesh and bone '' . 
He went into the Jewish quarter , wanting to draw Hebraic faces so that he could reach a visual understanding of how Christ might have looked . 
The Jewish section was in Trastevere , near the Tiber at the church of San Francesco a Ripa . 
The colony had been small until the Spanish Inquisition of 1492 drove many Jews into Rome . 
Here , for the most part , they were well treated , as a `` reminder of the Old Testament heritage of Christianity '' ; ; many of their gifted members were prominent in the Vatican as physicians , musicians , bankers . 
The men did not object to his sketching them while they went about their work , but no one could be persuaded to come to his studio to pose . 
He was told to ask for Rabbi Melzi at the synagogue on Saturday afternoon . 
Michelangelo found the rabbi in the room of study , a gentle old man with a white beard and luminous grey eyes , robed in black gabardine with a skullcap on his head . 
He was reading from the Talmud with a group of men from his congregation . 
When Michelangelo explained why he had come , Rabbi Melzi replied gravely : `` The Bible forbids us to bow down to or to make graven images . 
That is why our creative people give their time to literature , not to painting or sculpture '' . 
`` But , Rabbi Melzi , you don't object to others creating works of art '' ? 
`` Not at all . 
Each religion has its own tenets '' . 
`` I am carving a Pieta from white Carrara marble . 
I wish to make Jesus an authentic Jew . 
I cannot accomplish this if you will not help me '' . 
The rabbi said thoughtfully , `` I would not want my people to get in trouble with the Church '' . 
`` I am working for the Cardinal of San Dionigi . 
I'm sure he would approve '' . 
`` What kind of models would you prefer '' ? 
`` Workmen . 
In their mid-thirties . 
Not bulky laborers , but sinewy men . 
With intelligence . 
And sensitivity '' . 
Rabbi Melzi smiled at him with infinitely old but merry eyes . 
`` Leave me your address . 
I will send you the best the quarter has to offer '' . 
Michelangelo hurried to Sangallo's solitary bachelor room with his sketches , asked the architect to design a stand which would simulate the seated Madonna . 
Sangallo studied the drawings and improvised a trestle couch . 
Michelangelo bought some scrap lumber . 
Together he and Argiento built the stand , covering it with blankets . 
His first model arrived at dusk . 
He hesitated for a moment when Michelangelo asked him to disrobe , so Michelangelo gave him a piece of toweling to wrap around his loins , led him to the kitchen to take off his clothes . 
He then draped him over the rough stand , explained that he was supposed to be recently dead , and was being held on his mother's lap . 
The model quite plainly thought Michelangelo crazy ; ; only the instructions from his rabbi kept him from bolting . 
But at the end of the sitting , when Michelangelo showed him the quick , free drawings , with the mother roughed in , holding her son , the model grasped what Michelangelo was after , and promised to speak to his friends . 
He worked for two hours a day with each model sent by the rabbi . 
Mary presented quite a different problem . 
Though this sculpture must take place thirty-three years after her moment of decision , he could not conceive of her as a woman in her mid-fifties , old , wrinkled , broken in body and face by labor or worry . 
His image of the Virgin had always been that of a young woman , even as had his memory of his mother . 
Jacopo Galli introduced him into several Roman homes . 
Here he sketched , sitting in their flowing gowns of linen and silk , young girls not yet twenty , some about to be married , some married a year or two . 
Since the Santo Spirito hospital had taken only men , he had had no experience in the study of female anatomy ; ; but he had sketched the women of Tuscany in their fields and homes . 
He was able to discern the body lines of the Roman women under their robes . 
He spent concentrated weeks putting his two figures together : a Mary who would be young and sensitive , yet strong enough to hold her son on her lap ; ; and a Jesus who , though lean , was strong even in death a look he remembered well from his experience in the dead room of Santo Spirito . 
He drew toward the composite design from his meticulously accurate memory , without need to consult his sketches . 
Soon he was ready to go into a three-dimensional figure in clay . 
Here he would have free expression because the material could be moved to distort forms . 
When he wanted to emphasize , or get greater intensity , he added or subtracted clay . 
Next he turned to wax because there was a similarity of wax to marble in tactile quality and translucence . 
He respected each of these approach techniques , and kept them in character : his quill drawings had a scratchiness , suggesting skin texture ; ; the clay he used plastically to suggest soft moving flesh , as in an abdomen , in a reclining torso ; ; the wax he smoothed over to give the body surface an elastic pull . 
Yet he never allowed these models to become fixed in his mind ; ; they remained rough starting points . 
When carving he was charged with spontaneous energy ; ; too careful or detailed studies in clay and wax would have glued him down to a mere enlarging of his model . 
The true surge had to be inside the marble itself . 
Drawing and models were his thinking . 
Carving was action . 
10 . 
The arrangement with Argiento was working well , except that sometimes Michelangelo could not figure who was master and who apprentice . 
Argiento had been trained so rigorously by the Jesuits that Michelangelo was unable to change his habits : up before dawn to scrub the floors , whether they were dirty or not ; ; water boiling on the fire for washing laundry every day , the pots scoured with river sand after each meal . 
`` Argiento , this is senseless '' , he complained , not liking to work on the wet floors , particularly in cold weather . 
`` You're too clean . 
Scrub the studio once a week . 
That's enough '' . 
`` No '' , said Argiento stolidly . 
`` Every day . 
Before dawn . 
I was taught '' . 
`` And God help anyone who tries to unteach you '' ! 
Grumbled Michelangelo ; ; yet he knew that he had nothing to grumble about , for Argiento made few demands on him . 
The boy was becoming acquainted with the contadini families that brought produce into Rome . 
On Sundays he would walk miles into the campagna to visit with them , and in particular to see their horses . 
The one thing he missed from his farm in the Po Valley was the animals ; ; frequently he would take his leave of Michelangelo by announcing : `` Today I go see the horses '' . 
It took a piece of bad luck to show Michelangelo that the boy was devoted to him . 
He was crouched over his anvil in the courtyard getting his chisels into trim , when a splinter of steel flew into his eye and imbedded itself in his pupil . 
He stumbled into the house , eyes burning like fire . 
Argiento made him lie down on the bed , brought a pan of hot water , dipped some clean white linen cloth and applied it to extract the splinter . 
Though the pain was considerable Michelangelo was not too concerned . 
He assumed he could blink the splinter out . 
But it would not come . 
Argiento never left his side , keeping the water boiled , applying hot compresses throughout the night . 
By the second day Michelangelo began to worry ; ; and by the second night he was in a state of panic : he could see nothing out of the afflicted eye . 
At dawn Argiento went to Jacopo Galli . 
Galli arrived with his family surgeon , Maestro Lippi . 
The surgeon carried a cage of live pigeons . 
He told Argiento to take a bird out of the cage , cut a large vein under its wing , let the blood gush into Michelangelo's injured eye . 
The surgeon came back at dusk , cut the vein of a second pigeon , again washed out the eye . 
Beth was very still and her breath came in small jerking gasps . 
The thin legs twitched convulsively once , then Kate felt the little body stiffening in her arms and heard one strangled sound . 
The scant flesh grew cool beneath her frantic hands . 
The child was gone . 
When Juanita awoke , Kate was still rocking the dead child , still crooning in disbelief , `` No , no , oh , no ! 
'' They put Kate to bed and wired Jonathan and sent for the young Presbyterian minister . 
He sat beside Kate's bed with the others throughout the morning , talking , talking of God's will , while Kate lay staring angrily at him . 
When he told her God had called the child to Him , she rejected his words rebelliously . 
Few of the neighbors came , but Mrs. Tussle came , called by tragedy . 
`` It always comes in threes '' , she sighed heavily . 
`` Trouble never comes but in threes '' . 
They held the funeral the next morning from the crossroads church and buried the little box in the quiet family plot . 
Kate moved through all the preparations and services in a state of bewilderment . 
She would not accept the death of such a little child . 
`` God called her to Him '' , the minister had said . 
God would not do that , Kate thought stubbornly . 
Jonathan's letter came , as she knew it would , and he had accepted their child's death as another judgment from God against both Kate and himself . 
In blind panic of grief she accepted Jonathan's dictum , and believed in her desperation that she had been cursed by God . 
She held Jonathan's letter , his words burning like a brand , and knew suddenly that the bonds between them were severed . 
She had nothing left but her duty to his land and his son . 
Joel came and sat mutely with her , sharing her pain and anguish , averting his eyes from the ice packs on her bosom . 
Juanita and Mrs. Tussle kept Kate in bed a week until her milk dried . 
When she returned to life in the big house she felt shriveled of all emotion save dedication to duty . 
She disciplined herself daily to do what must be done . 
She had even steeled herself to keep Juanita upstairs in the nurse's room off the empty nursery , although the girl tried to insist on moving back to the quarters to spare Kate remembrance of the baby's death . 
Juanita drooped about the place , wearing a haunted , brooding look , which Kate attributed to the baby's death , until the day a letter came for her addressed to `` Miss Juanita Fitzroy '' , bearing a Grafton postmark . 
Seeing the slanting hand , Kate knew uneasily that it was from the Yankee colonel . 
The Federal forces had taken Parkersburg and Grafton from the Rebels and were moving to take all the mountains . 
Kate tried to contain her curiosity and foreboding at what the letter portended , at what involvement existed for Juanita . 
Uncle Randolph and Joel had replanted the bottom lands with difficulty , for more of the slaves , including Annie , had sneaked off when the soldiers broke camp . 
Joel worked like a field hand in the afternoons after school . 
He had been at lessons in the schoolhouse since they returned from Harpers Ferry . 
Kate felt she had deserted the boy in her own loss . 
She loved him and missed his company . 
Uncle Randolph had been riding out every evening on some secret business of his own . 
What it was Kate could not fathom . 
He claimed to be visiting the waterfront saloon at the crossroads to play cards and drink with his cronies , but Kate had not smelled brandy on him since Mrs. Lattimer's funeral . 
Joel knew what he was about , however . 
`` You're gonna get caught '' , she heard Joel say to Uncle Randolph by the pump one morning . 
`` Not this old fox '' , chuckled Uncle Randolph . 
`` Everybody knows I'm just a harmless , deaf old man who takes to drink . 
I aim to keep a little whisky still back in the ridge for my pleasure '' . 
`` Whiskey still , my foot '' , said Joel . 
`` You're back there riding with the guerrillas , the Moccasin Rangers '' . 
`` Hush '' , said Uncle Randolph , smiling , `` or I'll give you another black eye '' . 
He patted the eye Joel had had blackened in a fight over being Rebel at the crossroads some days back . 
Kate had no idea what they were talking of , although she had seen the blue lights and strange fires burning and winking on the ridges at night , had heard horsemen on the River Road and hill trails through the nights till dawn . 
Stranger , Uncle Randolph began riding home nights with a jug strapped to his saddle , drunkenly singing `` Old Dan Tucker '' at the top of his voice . 
Hearing his voice ring raucously up from the road , Kate would await him anxiously and watch perplexed as he walked into the house , cold sober . 
What he was about became clear to her with the circulation of another broadside proclamation by General McClellan , threatening reprisals against Rebel guerrillas . 
She was taken up in worry for the reckless old man . 
Kate drew more and more on her affection for Joel through the hot days of summer work . 
She had taken him out of the schoolhouse and closed the school for the summer , after she saw Miss Snow crack Joel across the face with a ruler for letting a snake loose in the schoolroom . 
Kate had walked past the school on her morning chores and had seen the whole incident , had seen Joel's burning humiliation before Miss Snow's cold , bespectacled wrath . 
He had the hardest pains of growing before him now , as he approached twelve . 
These would be his hardest years , she knew , and he missed his father desperately . 
She tried to find some way to draw him out , to help him . 
Whenever she found time , she went blackberry picking with him , and they would come home together , mouths purple , arms and faces scratched , tired enough to forget grief for another day . 
He tended the new colts Beau had sired . 
He helped Kate and Juanita enlarge the flower garden in the side yard , where they sometimes sat in the still evenings watching the last fat bees working against the summer's purple dusk . 
No one went much to the crossroads now except Uncle Randolph . 
They stayed in their own world on the bluff , waiting for letters and the peddler , bringing the news . 
Jonathan wrote grimly of the destruction of Harpers Ferry before they abandoned it ; ; of their first engagement at Falling Waters after Old Jack's First Brigade had destroyed all the rolling stock of the B & O Railroad . 
The men were restive , he wrote , ready to take the battle to the enemy as Jackson wished . 
The peddler came bawling his wares and told them of the convention in Wheeling , Which had formed a new state government by declaring the government at Richmond in the east illegal because they were traitors . 
Dangling his gaudy trinkets before them , he told of the Rebel losses in the mountains , at Cheat and Rich mountains both , and the Federal march on Beverly . 
`` Cleaned all them Rebs out'n the hills , they did ! 
They won't never git over inter loyal western Virginia , them traitors ! 
The Federals is making everybody take the oath of loyalty around these parts too '' , he crowed . 
After he had gone , Kate asked Uncle Randolph proudly , `` Would you take their oath '' ? 
And the old man had given a sly and wicked laugh and said , `` Hell , yes ! 
I think I've taken it about fifty times already '' ! 
Winking at Joel's look of shock . 
Her mother wrote Kate of her grief at the death of Kate's baby and at Jonathan's decision to go with the South `` And , dear Kate '' , she wrote , `` poor Dr. Breckenridge's son Robert is now organizing a militia company to go South , to his good father's sorrow . 
Maj. Anderson of Fort Sumter is home and recruiting volunteers for the U.S. Army . 
In spite of the fact that the state legislature voted us neutral , John Hunt Morgan is openly flying the Confederate flag over his woolen factory '' ! 
Rumor of a big battle spread like a grassfire up the valley . 
Accounts were garbled at the telegraph office when they sent old George down to Parkersburg for the news . 
`` All dey know down dere is it were at Manassas Junction and it were a big fight '' , the old man told them . 
In the next few days they had cause to rejoice . 
It had been a big battle , and the Confederate forces had won . 
Jonathan and Ben were not on the lists of the dead or on that of the missing . 
Kate and Mrs. Tussle waited for letters anxiously . 
Joel went to the crest of a hill behind the house and lit an enormous victory bonfire to celebrate . 
When Kate hurried in alarm to tell him to put it out , she saw other dots of flames among the western Virginia hills from the few scattered fires of the faithful . 
They all prayed now that the North would realize that peace must come , for Virginia had defended her land victoriously . 
The week after Manassas the sound of horses in the yard brought Kate up in shock from an afternoon's rest when she saw the Federal soldiers from her upstairs window . 
They had already lost most of their corn , she thought . 
Were they to be insulted again because of the South's great victory ? 
She remembered McClellan's last proclamation as she hurried fearfully down the stairs . 
At the landing she saw Juanita , her face flushed pink with excitement , run down the hall from the kitchen to the front door . 
Juanita stopped just inside the open door , her hand to her mouth . 
As Kate came swiftly down the stairs to the hall she saw Colonel Marsh framed in the doorway , his face set in the same vulnerable look Juanita wore . 
Kate greeted him gravely , uneasy with misgivings at his visit . 
`` What brings you here again , Colonel Marsh '' ? 
She asked , taking him and Juanita into the parlor where the shutters were closed against the afternoon sun . 
`` I stopped to say goodbye , Mrs. Lattimer , and to tell you how sorry I was to hear about your baby . 
I wish our doctor could have saved her '' . 
`` It was a terrible loss to me '' , said Kate quietly , feeling the pain twist again at the mention , knowing now that Juanita must have written to him at Grafton . 
`` Where will you go now that you're leaving Parkersburg '' ? 
She asked him , seeing Juanita's eyes grow bleak . 
`` As you know , General McClellan has been occupying Beverly . 
He has notified me that he has orders to go to Washington to take over the Army of the Potomac . 
I am to go to Washington to serve with him '' . 
`` When are you to leave '' ? 
Kate asked , watching them both now anxiously . 
Their eyes betrayed too much of their emotions , she thought sadly . 
`` Tomorrow . 
Would you permit Juanita to walk about the grounds with me for a short spell , Mrs. Lattimer '' ? 
`` Stay here in the parlor where it's cool '' , she said , trying to be calm . 
It would be better for Joel and Uncle Randolph and Mrs. Tussle not to see them . 
Kate went back and reminded the kitchen women of the supper preparations . 
Then she took iced lemonade to Marsh's young aide where he sat in the cool of the big trees around the flower garden . 
When Marsh called to his aide and the pair rode off down the River Road where the gentians burned blue , Juanita was shaken and trying not to cry . 
She sought Kate out upstairs , her lips trembling . 
`` He wants me to go with him tomorrow '' , she told Kate . 
`` What do you want to do '' ? 
Kate asked , uneasy at the gravity of the girl's dilemma . 
`` I could go with him . 
He knows me as your niece , which , of course , I am . 
But I am a slave ! 
You own me . 
It's your decision '' , said Juanita , holding her face very still , trying to contain the bitterness of her voice as she enunciated her words too distinctly . 
`` No , the decision is yours . 
I have held your papers of manumission since I married Mr. Lattimer '' . 
The red glow from the cove had died out of the sky . 
The two in the bed knew each other as old people know the partners with whom they have shared the same bed for many years , and they needed to say no more . 
The things left unsaid they both felt deeply , and with a sigh they fell back on the well-stuffed pillows . 
Anita put out the remaining candles with a long snuffer , and in the smell of scented candlewick , the comforting awareness of each other's bodies , the retained pattern of dancers and guests remembered , their minds grew numb and then empty of images . 
They slept -- Mynheer with a marvelously high-pitched snoring , the damn seahorse ivory teeth watching him from a bedside table . 
In the ballroom below , the dark had given way to moonlight coming in through the bank of French windows . 
It was a delayed moon , but now the sky had cleared of scudding black and the stars sugared the silver-gray sky . 
Martha Schuyler , old , slow , careful of foot , came down the great staircase , dressed in her best lace-drawn black silk , her jeweled shoe buckles held forward . 
`` Well , I'm here at last '' , she said , addressing the old portraits on the walls . 
`` I don't hear the music . 
I am getting deaf , I must admit it '' . 
She came to the ballroom and stood on the two carpeted steps that led down to it . 
`` Where is everyone ? 
I say , where is everyone ? 
Peter , you lummox , you've forgot to order the musicians '' . 
She stood there , a large old woman , smiling at the things she would say to him in the morning , this big foolish baby of a son . 
There were times now , like this , when she lost control of the time count and moved freely back and forth into three generations . 
Was it a birthday ball ? 
When Peter had reached his majority at eighteen ? 
Or was it her own first ball as mistress of this big house , a Van Rensselaer bride from way upstate near Albany , from Rensselaerwyck . 
And this handsome booby , staring and sweating , was he her bridegroom ? 
Martha picked up the hem of her gown and with eyes closed she slowly began to dance a stately minuet around the ballroom . 
David Cortlandt was tired beyond almost the limits of his flesh . 
He had ridden hard from Boston , and he was not used to horseback . 
Now , driving the horse and sulky borrowed from Mynheer Schuyler , he felt as if every bone was topped by burning oil and that every muscle was ready to dissolve into jelly and leave his big body helpless and unable to move . 
The road leading south along the river was shaded with old trees , and in the moonlight the silvery landscape was like a setting for trolls and wood gods rather than the Hudson River Valley of his boyhood memories . 
He slapped the reins on the back of the powerful gray horse and held on as the sulky's wheels hit a pothole and came out with a jolt and went on . 
He would cross to Manhattan , to Harlem Heights , before morning . 
There a certain farmhouse was a station for the Sons of Liberty . 
He would send on by trusted messenger the dispatches with their electrifying news . 
And he would sleep , sleep , and never think of roads and horses' sore haunches , of colonial wars . 
Strange how everything here fitted back into his life , even if he had been away so long . 
Mynheer , Sir Francis , the valley society , the very smell of the river on his right purling along to the bay past fish weirs and rocks , and ahead the sleepy ribbon of moon-drenched road . 
A mist was walking on the water , white as cotton , but with a blending and merging grace . 
Ahead there was a stirring of sudden movement at a crossroads . 
David reached for the pair of pistols in the saddlebags at his feet . 
He pulled out one of them and cocked it . 
A strange wood creature came floating up from a patch of berry bushes . 
It was a grotesque hen , five or six feet tall . 
It had the features of a man bewhiskered by clumps of loose feathers . 
It ran , this apocalyptic beast , on two thin legs , and its wings -- were they feathered arms ? 
-- flapped as it ran . 
Its groin was bloody . 
Black strips of skin hung from it . 
The horse shied at the dreadful thing and flared its nostrils . 
David took a firm hand with it . 
The creature in feathers looked around and David saw the mad eyes , glazed with an insane fear . 
The ungainly bird thing ran away , and to David its croaking sounded like the crowing of a tormented rooster . 
Then it was gone . 
He drove on , wary and shaken . 
The Sons were out tonight . 
Chapter 10 New York lay bleaching in the summer sun , and the morning fish hawk , flying in the heated air , saw below him the long triangular wedge of Manhattan Island . 
It was thickly settled by fifteen thousand citizens and laid out into pig-infested streets , mostly around the Battery , going bravely north to Wall Street , but giving up and becoming fields and farms in the region of Harlem Heights . 
From there it looked across at Westchester County and the Hudson River where the manor houses , estates , and big farms of the original ( non-Indian ) landowners began . 
On the east side of the island of Manhattan the indifferent hawk knew the East River that connected New York Bay with Long Island Sound . 
On the western tip of Long Island protruded Brooklyn Heights . 
It commanded a view over Manhattan and the harbor . 
A fringe of housing and gardens bearded the top of the heights , and behind it were sandy roads leading past farms and hayfields . 
Husbandry was bounded by snake-rail fences , and there were grazing cattle . 
On the shores north and south , the fishers and mooncursers -- smugglers -- lived along the churning Great South Bay and the narrow barrier of sand , Fire Island . 
The morning hawk , hungry for any eatable , killable , digestible item , kept his eyes on the ring of anchored ships that lay off the shores in the bay , sheltered by the Jersey inlets . 
They often threw tidbits overboard . 
The larger ships were near Paulus Hook , already being called , by a few , Jersey City . 
These were the ships of His Majesty's Navy , herding the hulks of the East Indies merchants and the yachts and ketches of the loyalists . 
The news of battle on Breed's Hill had already seeped through , and New York itself was now left in the hands of the local Provincial Congress . 
The fish hawk , his wings not moving , circled and glided lower . 
The gilt sterns of the men-of-war becoming clearer to him , the sides of the wooden sea walls alternately painted yellow and black , the bronze cannon at the ports . 
The captain's gig of H.M.S. Mercury was being rowed to H.M.S. Neptune . 
On shore `` the freed slaves to despotism '' -- the town dwellers -- watched the ships and waited . 
The chevaux de frise , those sharp stakes and barriers around the fort at the Battery , pointed to a conflict between the town and sea power rolling in glassy swells as the tide came in . 
Across the bay the Palisades were heavy in green timber ; ; their rock paths led down to the Hudson . 
Below in the open bay facing Manhattan was Staten Island , gritty with clam shells and mud flats behind which nested farms , cattle barns , and berry thickets . 
Along Wappinger Creek in Dutchess County , past the white church at Fishkill , past Verplanck's Point on the east bank of the Hudson , to the white salt-crusted roads of the Long Island Rockaways there was a watching and an activity of preparing for something explosive to happen . 
Today , tomorrow , six months , even perhaps a year The fish hawk flew on and was lost from sight . 
The British ships rolled at anchor , sent out picket boats and waited for orders from London . 
Waited for more ships , more lobster-backed infantry , and asked what was to be done with a war of rebellion ? 
David Cortlandt , having slept away a day and a night , came awake in a plank farmhouse on the Harlem River near Spuyten Duyvil . 
He looked out through windowpanes turned a faint violet by sun and weather , looked out at King's Bridge toward Westchester . 
The road seemed animated with a few more wagons than usual ; ; a carriage raising up the choking June dust , and beyond , in a meadow , a local militia company drilling with muskets , Kentuck' rifles , every kind of horse pistol , old sword , or cutlass . 
The wraith-like events of the last few days flooded David's mind and he rubbed his unshaved chin and felt again the ache in his kidneys caused by his saddle odyssey from Boston . 
Pensive , introspective , he ached . 
He had sent the dispatches downtown to the proper people and had slept . 
Now there was more to do . 
Orders not written down had to be transmitted to the local provincial government . 
He scratched his mosquito-plagued neck . 
From the saddlebags , hung on a Hitchcock chair , David took out a good English razor , a present from John Hunter . 
He found tepid water in a pitcher and a last bit of soap , and he lathered his face and stood stropping the razor on his broad leather belt , its buckle held firm by a knob of the bedpost . 
He hoped he was free of self-deception . 
Here he was , suddenly caught up in the delirium of a war , in the spite and calumny of Whigs and Tories . 
There would be great need soon for his skill as surgeon , but somehow he had not planned to use his knowledge merely for war . 
David Cortlandt had certain psychic intuitions that this rebellion was not wholly what it appeared on the surface . 
He knew that many were using it for their own ends . 
But it did not matter . 
He stropped the razor slowly ; ; what mattered was that a new concept of Americans was being born . 
That some men did not want it he could understand . 
The moral aridity of merchants made them loyal usually to their ledgers . 
Yet some , like Morris Manderscheid , would bankrupt themselves for the new ideas . 
Unique circumstances would test us all , he decided . 
Injury and ingratitude would occur . 
No doubt John Hancock would do well now ; ; war was a smugglers' heaven . 
And what of that poor tarred and feathered wretch he had seen on the road driving down from Schuyler's ? 
Things like that would increase rather than be done away with . 
One had to believe in final events or one was stranded in the abyss of nothing . 
He saw with John Hunter now that the perfectability of man was a dream . 
Life was a short play of tenebrous shadows . 
David began to shave with great sweeping strokes . 
Time plays an essential part in our mortality , and suddenly for no reason he could imagine ( or admit ) the image of Peg laughing filled his mind -- so desirable , so lusty , so full of nuances of pleasure and joy . 
He drove sensual patterns off , carefully shaving his long upper lip . 
It is harder , he muttered , to meditate on man ( or woman ) than on God . 
David finished shaving , washed his face clean of lather , and combed and retied his hair . 
He was proud that he had never worn a wig . 
More and more of the colonials were wearing their own hair and not using powder . 
He felt cheerful again , refreshed ; ; presentable in his wide-cut brown suit , the well-made riding boots . 
It is so easy to falsify sentiment . 
In the meadow below , militia officers shouted at their men and on King's Bridge two boys sat fishing . 
The future would happen ; ; he did not have to hurry it by thinking too much . 
A man could be tossed outside the dimension of time by a stray bullet these days . 
He began to pack the saddlebags . 
And all this too shall pass away : it came to him out of some dim corner of memory from a church service when he was a boy -- yes , in a white church with a thin spur steeple in the patriarchal Hudson Valley , where a feeling of plenitude was normal in those English-Dutch manors with their well-fed squires . 
Burly leathered men and wrinkled women in drab black rags carried on in a primitive way , almost unchanged from feudal times . 
Peasants puzzled Andrei . 
He wondered how they could go on in poverty , superstition , ignorance , with a complete lack of desire to make either their land or their lives flourish . 
Andrei remembered a Bathyran meeting long ago . 
Tolek Alterman had returned from the colonies in Palestine and , before the national leadership , exalted the miracles of drying up swamps and irrigating the desert . 
A fund-raising drive to buy tractors and machinery was launched . 
Andrei remembered that his own reaction had been one of indifference . 
Had he found the meaning too late ? 
It aggravated him . 
The land of the Lublin Uplands was rich , but no one seemed to care . 
In the unfertile land in Palestine humans broke their backs pushing will power to the brink . 
He had sat beside Alexander Brandel at the rostrum of a congress of Zionists . 
All of them were there in this loosely knit association of diversified ideologies , and each berated the other and beat his breast for his own approaches . 
When Alexander Brandel rose to speak , the hall became silent . 
`` I do not care if your beliefs take you along a path of religion or a path of labor or a path of activism . 
We are here because all our paths travel a blind course through a thick forest , seeking human dignity . 
Beyond the forest all our paths merge into a single great highway which ends in the barren , eroded hills of Judea . 
This is our singular goal . 
How we travel through the forest is for each man's conscience . 
Where we end our journey is always the same . 
We all seek the same thing through different ways -- an end to this long night of two thousand years of darkness and unspeakable abuses which will continue to plague us until the Star of David flies over Zion '' . 
This was how Alexander Brandel expressed pure Zionism . 
It had sounded good to Andrei , but he did not believe it . 
In his heart he had no desire to go to Palestine . 
He loathed the idea of drying up swamps or the chills of malaria or of leaving his natural birthright . 
Before he went into battle Andrei had told Alex , `` I only want to be a Pole . 
Warsaw is my city , not Tel Aviv '' . 
And now Andrei sat on a train on the way to Lublin and wondered if he was not being punished for his lack of belief . 
Warsaw ! 
He saw the smug eyes of the Home Army chief , Roman , and all the Romans and the faces of the peasants who held only hatred for him . 
They had let this black hole of death in Warsaw's heart exist without a cry of protest . 
Once there had been big glittering rooms where Ulanys bowed and kissed the ladies' hands as they flirted from behind their fans . 
Warsaw ! 
Warsaw ! 
`` Miss Rak . 
I am a Jew '' . 
Day by day , week by week , month by month , the betrayal gnawed at Andrei's heart . 
He ground his teeth together . 
I hate Warsaw , he said to himself . 
I hate Poland and all the goddamned mothers' sons of them . 
All of Poland is a coffin . 
The terrible vision of the ghetto streets flooded his mind . 
What matters now ? 
What is beyond this fog ? 
Only Palestine , and I will never live to see Palestine because I did not believe . 
By late afternoon the train inched into the marshaling yards in the railhead at Lublin , which was filled with lines of cars poised to pour the tools of war to the Russian front . 
At a siding , another train which was a familiar sight these days . 
Deportees . 
Jews . 
Andrei's skilled eye sized them up . 
They were not Poles . 
He guessed by their appearance that they were Rumanians . 
He walked toward the center of the city to keep his rendezvous with Styka . 
Of all the places in Poland , Andrei hated Lublin the most . 
The Bathyrans were all gone . 
Few of the native Jews who had lived in Lublin were still in the ghetto . 
From the moment of the occupation Lublin became a focal point . 
He and Ana watched it carefully . 
Lublin generally was the forerunner of what would happen elsewhere . 
Early in 1939 , Odilo Globocnik , the Gauleiter of Vienna , established SS headquarters for all of Poland . 
The Bathyrans ran a check on Globocnik and had only to conclude that he was in a tug of war with Hans Frank and the civilian administrators . 
Globocnik built the Death's-Head Corps . 
Lublin was the seed of action for the `` final solution '' of the Jewish problem . 
As the messages from Himmler , Heydrich , and Eichmann came in through Alfred Funk , Lublin's fountainhead spouted . 
A bevy of interlacing lagers , work camps , concentration camps erupted in the area . 
Sixty thousand Jewish prisoners of war disappeared into Lublin's web . 
Plans went in and out of Lublin , indicating German confusion . 
A tale of a massive reservation in the Uplands to hold several million Jews A tale of a plan to ship all Jews to the island of Madagascar Stories of the depravity of the guards at Globocnik's camps struck a chord of terror at the mere mention of their names . 
Lipowa 7 , Sobibor , Chelmno , Poltawa , Belzec , Krzywy-Rog , Budzyn , Krasnik . 
Ice baths , electric shocks , lashings , wild dogs , testicle crushers . 
The Death's-Head Corps took in Ukrainian and Baltic Auxiliaries , and the Einsatzkommandos waded knee-deep in blood and turned into drunken , dope-ridden maniacs . 
Lublin was their heart . 
In the spring of 1942 Operation Reinhard began in Lublin . 
The ghetto , a miniature of Warsaw's , was emptied into the camp in the Majdan-Tartarski suburb called Majdanek . 
As the camp emptied , it was refilled by a draining of the camps and towns around Lublin , then by deportees from outside Poland . 
In and in and in they poured through the gates of Majdanek , but they never left , and Majdanek was not growing any larger . 
What was happening in Majdanek ? 
Was Operation Reinhard the same pattern for the daily trains now leaving the Umschlagplatz in Warsaw ? 
Was there another Majdanek in the Warsaw area , as they suspected ? 
Andrei stopped at Litowski Place and looked around quickly at the boundary of civil buildings . 
His watch told him he was still early . 
Down the boulevard he could see a portion of the ghetto wall . 
He found an empty bench , opened a newspaper , and stretched his legs before him . 
Krakow Boulevard was filled with black Nazi uniforms and the dirty brownish ones of their Auxiliaries . 
`` Captain Androfski '' ! 
Andrei glanced up over the top of the paper and looked into the mustached , homely face of Sergeant Styka . 
Styka sat beside him and pumped his hand excitedly . 
`` I have been waiting across the street at the post office since dawn . 
I thought you might get in on a morning train '' . 
`` It's good to see you again , Styka '' . 
Styka studied his captain . 
He almost broke into tears . 
To him , Andrei Androfski had always been the living symbol of a Polish officer . 
His captain was thin and haggard and his beautiful boots were worn and shabby . 
`` Remember to call me Jan '' , Andrei said . 
Styka nodded and sniffed and blew his nose vociferously . 
`` When that woman found me and told me that you needed me I was never so happy since before the war '' . 
`` I'm lucky that you were still living in Lublin '' . 
Styka grumbled about fate . 
`` For a time I thought of trying to reach the Free Polish Forces , but one thing led to another . 
I got a girl in trouble and we had to get married . 
Not a bad girl . 
So we have three children and responsibilities . 
I work at the granary . 
Nothing like the old days in the army , but I get by . 
Who complains ? 
Many times I tried to reach you , but I never knew how . 
I came to Warsaw twice , but there was that damned ghetto wall '' `` I understand '' . 
Styka blew his nose again . 
`` Were you able to make the arrangements '' ? 
Andrei asked . 
`` There is a man named Grabski who is the foreman in charge of the bricklayers at Majdanek . 
I did exactly as instructed . 
I told him you are on orders from the Home Army to get inside Majdanek so you can make a report to the government in exile in London '' . 
`` His answer '' ? 
`` Ten thousand zlotys '' . 
`` Can he be trusted '' ? 
`` He is aware he will not live for twenty-four hours if he betrays you '' . 
`` Good man , Styka '' . 
`` Captain Jan must you go inside Majdanek ? 
The stories Everyone really knows what is happening there '' . 
`` Not everyone , Styka '' . 
`` What good will it really do '' ? 
`` I don't know . 
Perhaps perhaps there is a shred of conscience left in the human race . 
Perhaps if they know the story there will be a massive cry of indignation '' . 
`` Do you really believe that , Jan '' ? 
`` I have to believe it '' . 
Styka shook his head slowly . 
`` I am only a simple soldier . 
I cannot think things out too well . 
Until I was transferred into the Seventh Ulanys I was like every other Pole in my feeling about Jews . 
I hated you when I first came in . 
But my captain might have been a Jew , but he wasn't a Jew . 
What I mean is , he was a Pole and the greatest soldier in the Ulanys . 
Hell , sir . 
The men of our company had a dozen fights defending your name . 
You never knew about it , but by God , we taught them respect for Captain Androfski '' . 
Andrei smiled . 
`` Since the war I have seen the way the Germans have behaved and I think , Holy Mother , we have behaved like this for hundreds of years . 
Why '' ? 
`` How can you tell an insane man to reason or a blind man to see '' ? 
`` But we are neither blind nor insane . 
The men of your company would not allow your name dishonored . 
Why do we let the Germans do this '' ? 
`` I have sat many hours with this , Styka . 
All I ever wanted was to be a free man in my own country . 
I've lost faith , Styka . 
I used to love this country and believe that someday we'd win our battle for equality . 
But now I think I hate it very much '' . 
`` And do you really think that the world outside Poland will care any more than we do '' ? 
The question frightened Andrei . 
`` Please don't go inside Majdanek '' . 
`` I'm still a soldier in a very small way , Styka '' . 
It was an answer that Styka understood . 
Grabski's shanty was beyond the bridge over the River Bystrzyca near the rail center . 
Grabski sat in a sweat-saturated undershirt , cursing the excessive heat which clamped an uneasy stillness before sundown . 
He was a square brick of a man with a moon-round face and sunken Polish features . 
Flies swarmed around the bowl of lentils in which he mopped thick black bread . 
Half of it dripped down his chin . 
He washed it down with beer and produced a deep-seated belch . 
`` Well '' ? 
Andrei demanded . 
Grabski looked at the pair of them . 
He grunted a sort of `` yes '' answer . 
`` My cousin works at the Labor Bureau . 
He can make you work papers . 
It will take a few days . 
I will get you inside the guard camp as a member of my crew . 
I don't know if I can get you into the inner camp . 
Maybe yes , maybe no , but you can observe everything from the roof of a barrack we are building '' . 
Grabski slurped his way to the bottom of the soup bowl . 
`` Can't understand why the hell anyone wants to go inside that son-of-a-bitch place '' . 
`` Orders from the Home Army '' . 
`` Why ? 
Nothing there but Jews '' . 
Andrei shrugged . 
`` We get strange orders '' . 
`` Well -- what about the money '' ? 
Andrei peeled off five one-thousand-zloty notes . 
Grabski had never seen so much money . 
His broad flat fingers , petrified into massive sausages by years of bricklaying , snatched the bills clumsily . 
`` This ain't enough '' . 
`` You get the rest when I'm safely out of Majdanek '' . 
`` I ain't taking no goddamned chances for no Jew business '' . 
Andrei and Styka were silent . 
She was getting real dramatic . 
I'd have been more impressed if I hadn't remembered that she'd played Hedda Gabler in her highschool dramatics course . 
I didn't want her back on that broken record . 
`` Nothing's free in the whole goddam world '' , was all I could think of to say . 
When I'd delivered myself of that gem there was nothing to do but order up another drink . 
`` I am '' , she said . 
I'd forgotten all about Thelma and the Kentucky Derby and how it was Thelma's fifty dollars I was spending . 
It was just me and Eileen getting drunk together like we used to in the old days , and me staring at her across the table crazy to get my hands on her partly because I wanted to wring her neck because she was so ornery but mostly because she was so wonderful to touch . 
Drunk or sober she was the most attractive woman in the world for me . 
I was crazy about her all over again . 
It was the call of the wild all right . 
That evening turned out to be hell like all the others . 
We moved down Broadway from ginmill to ginmill . 
It was the same old routine . 
Eileen got to dancing , just a little tiny dancing step to a hummed tune that you could hardly notice , and trying to pick up strange men , but each time I was ready to say to hell with it and walk out she'd pull herself together and talk so understandingly in that sweet husky voice about the good times and the happiness we'd had together and there I was back on the hook . 
I did have the decency to call up Thelma and tell her I'd met old friends and would be home late . 
`` I could scratch her eyes out '' , Eileen cried and stamped her foot when I came back from the phone booth . 
`` You know I don't like my men to have other women . 
I hate it . 
I hate it '' . 
She got so drunk I had to take her home . 
It was a walk up on Hudson Street . 
She just about made me carry her upstairs and then she clung to me and wouldn't let me go . 
There was a man's jacket on the chair and a straw hat on the table . 
The place smelt of some kind of hair lotion these pimplike characters use . 
`` What about Ballestre '' ? 
I had to shake her to make her listen . 
`` Precious . 
What about him '' ? 
Suddenly she was very mysterious and dramatic . 
`` Precious and I allow each other absolute freedom . 
We are above being jealous . 
He's used to me bringing home strange men . 
I'll just tell him you're my husband . 
He can't object to that '' . 
`` Well I object . 
If he pokes his nose in here I'll slug him '' . 
`` That really would be funny '' . 
She began to laugh . 
She was still laughing when I grabbed her and started rolling her on the bed . 
After all I'm made of flesh and blood . 
I'm not a plaster saint . 
Waking up was horrible . 
Never in my life have I felt so remorseful about anything I've done as I did about spending that night with my own wife . 
We both had hangovers . 
Eileen declared she couldn't lift her head from the pillow . 
She lay under the covers making jabbing motions with her forefinger telling me where to look for the coffeepot . 
I was stumbling in my undershirt trying to find my way around her damn kitchenette when I smelt that sickish sweet hairtonic smell . 
There was somebody else in the apartment . 
I stiffened . 
Honest I could feel the hair stand up on the back of my neck like a dog's that is going to get into a fight . 
I turned around with the percolator in my hand . 
My eyes were so bleary I could barely see him but there he was , a little smooth olivefaced guy in a new spring overcoat and a taffycolored fedora . 
Brown eyes , eyebrow mustache . 
Oval face without an expression in the world . 
We didn't have time to speak before Eileen's voice was screeching at us from the bed . 
`` Joseph Maria Ballestre meet Francis Xavier Bowman . 
Exboyfriend meet exhusband '' . 
She gave the nastiest laugh I ever heard . 
`` And don't either of you forget that I'm not any man's property . 
If you want to fight , go down on the sidewalk '' . 
She was enjoying the situation . 
Imagine that . 
Eileen was a psychologist all right . 
Instead of wanting to sock the poor bastard I found myself having a fellowfeeling for him . 
Maybe he felt the same way . 
I never felt such a lowdown hound in my life . 
First thing I knew he was in the kitchenette cooking up the breakfast and I was handing Eileen her coffeecup and she was lying there handsome as a queen among her courtiers . 
I couldn't face Thelma after that night . 
I didn't even have the nerve to call her on the telephone . 
I wrote her that I'd met up with Eileen and that old bonds had proved too strong and asked her to send my clothes down by express . 
Of course I had to give her Eileen's address , but she never came near us . 
All she did was write me a pleasant little note about how it was beautiful while it lasted but that now life had parted our ways and it was goodbye forever . 
She never said a word about the fifty dollars . 
She added a postscript begging me to be careful about drinking . 
I must know that that was my greatest weakness underlined three times . 
Afterwards I learned that Eileen had called Thelma on the telephone and made a big scene about Thelma trying to take her husband away . 
That finished me with Thelma . 
Trust Eileen to squeeze all the drama out of a situation . 
And there I was shacked up with Eileen in that filthy fourth floor attic on Hudson Street . 
I use the phrase advisedly because there was something positively indecent about our relationship . 
I felt it and it ate on me all the time , but I didn't know how right I was till later . 
What I did know was that Precious was always around . 
He slept in the hall bedroom at the head of the stairs . 
`` Who do you think pays the rent ? 
You wouldn't have me throw the poor boy out on the street '' , Eileen said when I needled her about it . 
I said sure that was what I wanted her to do but she paid no attention . 
Eileen had a wonderful way of not listening to things she didn't want to hear . 
Still I didn't think she was twotiming me with Precious right then . 
To be on the safe side I never let Eileen get out of my sight day or night . 
Precious had me worried . 
I couldn't make out what his racket was . 
I'd thought him a pimp or procurer but he didn't seem to be . 
He was smooth and civil spoken but it seemed to me there was something tough under his selfeffacing manner . 
Still he let Eileen treat him like a valet . 
Whenever the place was cleaned or a meal served it was Precious who did the work . 
I never could find out what his business was . 
He always seemed to have money in his pocket . 
The phone had been disconnected but telegrams came for him and notes by special messenger . 
Now and then he would disappear for several days . 
`` Connections '' was all he would say with that smooth hurt smile when I put leading questions . 
`` Oh he's just an international spy '' , Eileen would shout with her screechy laugh . 
Poor devil he can't have been too happy either . 
He got no relief from drink because , though sometimes Precious would buy himself a drink if he went out with us in the evening , he'd leave it on the table untouched . 
When I was in liquor I rode him pretty hard I guess . 
Occasionally if I pushed him too far he'd give me a look out of narrowed eyes and the hard cruel bony skull would show through that smooth face of his . 
`` Some day '' , I told Eileen , `` that guy will kill us both '' . 
She just wouldn't listen . 
Getting drunk every night was the only way I could handle the situation . 
Eileen seemed to feel the same way . 
We still had that much in common . 
The trouble was drinking cost money . 
The way Eileen and I were hitting it up , we needed ten or fifteen dollars an evening . 
Eileen must have wheedled a little out of Precious . 
I raised some kale by hocking the good clothes I had left over from my respectable uptown life , but when that was gone I didn't have a cent . 
I don't know what we would have done if Pat O'Dwyer hadn't come to town . 
Pat O'Dwyer looked like a heavier Jim . 
He had the same bullet head of curly reddish hair but he didn't have Jim's pokerfaced humor or his brains or his charm . 
He was a big thick beefy violent man . 
Now Pat may have been a lecher and a plugugly , but he was a good churchgoing Catholic and he loved his little sister . 
Those O'Dwyers had that Irish clannishness that made them stick together in spite of politics and everything . 
Pat took Eileen and me out to dinner at a swell steak house and told us with tears in his eyes how happy he was we had come together again . 
`` Whom God hath joined '' etcetera . 
The O'Dwyers were real religious people except for Kate . 
Now it would be up to me to keep the little girl out of mischief . 
Pat had been worried as hell ever since she'd lost her job on that fashion magazine . 
It had gone big with the Hollywood girls when he told them his sister was an editor of Art And Apparel . 
How about me trying to help her get her job back ? 
All evening Eileen had been as demure as a little girl getting ready for her first communion . 
It just about blew us both out of the water when Eileen suddenly came out with what she came out with . 
`` But brother I can't take a job right now '' , she said with her eyes on her ice cream , `` I'm going to have a baby , Francis Xavier's baby , my own husband's baby '' . 
My first thought was how had it happened so soon , but I counted back on my fingers and sure enough we'd been living together six weeks . 
Pat meanwhile was bubbling over with sentiment . 
Greatest thing that ever happened . 
Now Eileen really would have to settle down to love honor and obey , and she'd have to quit drinking . 
He'd come East for the christening , by God he would . 
When we separated that evening Pat pushed a hundred dollar bill into Eileen's hand to help towards a layette . 
Before he left town Pat saw to it that I was fixed up with a job . 
Pat had contacts all over the labor movement . 
A friend of Pat's named Frank Sposato had just muscled into the Portwatchers' Union . 
The portwatchers were retired longshoremen and small time seafarers off towboats and barges who acted as watchmen on the wharves . 
Most of them were elderly men . 
It was responsible and sometimes dangerous work because the thieving is awful in the port of New York . 
They weren't as well paid as they should have been . 
One reason the portwatchers let Sposato take them over was to get the protection of his musclemen . 
Sposato needed a front , some labor stiff with a clean record to act as business agent of the Redhook local . 
There I was a retired wobbly and structural iron worker who'd never gouged a cent off a fellow worker in my thirty years in the movement . 
For once radicalism was a recommendation . 
Sposato couldn't wait to get me hired . 
With my gray hair and my weatherbeaten countenance I certainly looked the honest working stiff . 
The things a man will do for a woman . 
There was one fact which Rector could not overlook , one truth which he could not deny . 
As long as there were two human beings working together on the same project , there would be competition and you could no more escape it than you could expect to escape the grave . 
No matter how devoted a man was , no matter how fully he gave his life to the Lord , he could never extinguish that one spark of pride that gave him definition as an individual . 
All of the jobs in the mission might be equal in the eyes of the Lord , but they were certainly not equal in the eyes of the Lord's servants . 
It was only natural that Fletcher would strive for a position in which he could make the decisions . 
Even Rector himself was prey to this spirit of competition and he knew it , not for a more exalted office in the hierarchy of the church -- his ambitions for the bishopry had died very early in his career -- but for the one clear victory he had talked about to the colonel . 
He was not sure how much of this desire was due to his devotion to the church and how much was his own ego , demanding to be satisfied , for the two were intertwined and could not be separated . 
He wanted desperately to see Kayabashi defeated , the Communists in the village rooted out , the mission standing triumphant , for in the triumph of the Lord he himself would be triumphant , too . 
But perhaps this was a part of the eternal plan , that man's ambition when linked with God would be a driving , indefatigable force for good in the world . 
He sighed . 
How foolish it was to try to fathom the truth in an area where only faith would suffice . 
He would have to work without questioning the motives which made him work and content himself with the thought that the eventual victory , however it was brought about , would be sweet indeed . 
His first move was to send Hino to the village to spend a few days . 
His arm had been giving him some trouble and Rector was not enough of a medical expert to determine whether it had healed improperly or whether Hino was simply rebelling against the tedious work in the print shop , using the stiffness in his arm as an excuse . 
In any event Rector sent him to the local hospital to have it checked , telling him to keep his ears open while he was in the village to see if he could find out what Kayabashi was planning . 
Hino was elated at the prospect . 
He was allowed to spend his nights at an inn near the hospital and he was given some extra money to go to the pachinko parlor -- an excellent place to make contact with the enemy . 
He left with all the joyous spirit of a child going on a holiday , nodding attentively as Rector gave him his final instructions . 
He was to get involved in no arguments ; ; he was to try to make no converts ; ; he was simply to listen and report back what he heard . 
It was a ridiculous situation and Rector knew it , for Hino , frankly partisan , openly gregarious , would make a poor espionage agent . 
If he wanted to know anything , he would end up asking about it point-blank , but in this guileless manner he would probably receive more truthful answers than if he tried to get them by indirection . 
In all of his experience in the mission field Rector had never seen a convert quite like Hino . 
From the moment that Hino had first walked into the mission to ask for a job , any job -- his qualifications neatly written on a piece of paper in a precise hand -- he had been ready to become a Christian . 
He had already been studying the Bible ; ; he knew the fundamentals , and after studying with Fletcher for a time he approached Rector , announced that he wanted to be baptized and that was that . 
Rector had never been able to find out much about Hino's past . 
Hino talked very little about himself except for the infrequent times when he used a personal illustration in connection with another subject . 
Putting the pieces of this mosaic together , Rector had the vague outlines of a biography . 
Hino was the fourth son of an elderly farmer who lived on the coast , in Chiba , and divided his life between the land and the sea , supplementing the marginal livelihood on his small rented farm with seasonal employment on a fishing boat . 
Without exception Hino's brothers turned to either one or both of their father's occupations , but Hino showed a talent for neither and instead spent most of his time on the beach where he repaired nets and proved immensely popular as a storyteller . 
He had gone into the Japanese navy , had been trained as an officer , had participated in one or two battles -- he never went into detail regarding his military experience -- and at the age of twenty-five , quite as a bolt out of the blue , he had walked into the mission as if he belonged here and had become a Christian . 
Rector was often curious ; ; often tempted to ask questions but he never did . 
If and when Hino decided to tell him about his experiences , he would do so unasked . 
Rector had no doubt that Hino would come back from the village bursting with information , ready to impart it with his customary gusto , liberally embellished with his active imagnation . 
When the telephone rang on the day after Hino went down to the village , Rector had a hunch it would be Hino with some morsel of information too important to wait until his return , for there were few telephones in the village and the phone in Rector's office rarely rang unless it was important . 
He was surprised to find Kayabashi's secretary on the other end of the line . 
He was even more startled when he heard what Kayabashi wanted . 
The oyabun was entertaining a group of dignitaries , the secretary said , businessmen from Tokyo for the most part , and Kayabashi wished to show them the mission . 
They had never seen one before and had expressed a curiosity about it . 
`` Oh '' ? 
Rector said . 
`` I guess it will be all right . 
When would the oyabun like to bring his guests up here '' ? 
`` This afternoon '' , the secretary said . 
`` At three o'clock if it will be of convenience to you at that time '' . 
`` All right '' , Rector said . 
`` I will be expecting them '' . 
He was about to hang up the phone , but a note of hesitancy in the secretary's voice left the conversation open . 
He had something more to say . 
`` I beg to inquire if the back is now safe for travelers '' , he said . 
Rector laughed despite himself . 
`` Unless the oyabun has been working on it '' , he said , then checked himself and added : `` You can tell Kayabashi-san that the back road is in very good condition and will be quite safe for his party to use '' . 
`` Arigato gosaimasu '' . 
The secretary sighed with relief and then the telephone clicked in Rector's hand . 
Rector had no idea why Kayabashi wanted to visit the mission . 
For the oyabun to make such a trip was either a sign of great weakness or an indication of equally great confidence , and from all the available information it was probably the latter . 
Kayabashi must feel fairly certain of his victory in order to make a visit like this , a trip which could be so easily misinterpreted by the people in the village . 
At the same time , it was unlikely that any businessmen would spend a day in a Christian mission out of mere curiosity . 
No , Kayabashi was bringing his associates here for a specific purpose and Rector would not be able to fathom it until they arrived . 
When he had given the call a few moments thought , he went into the kitchen to ask Mrs. Yamata to prepare tea and sushi for the visitors , using the formal English china and the silver tea service which had been donated to the mission , then he went outside to inspect the grounds . 
Fujimoto had a pile of cuttings near one side of the lawn . 
Rector asked him to move it for the time being ; ; he wanted the mission compound to be effortlessly spotless . 
A good initial impression would be important now . 
He went into the print shop , where Fletcher had just finished cleaning the press . 
`` How many pamphlets do we have in stock '' ? 
Rector said . 
`` I should say about a hundred thousand '' , Fletcher said . 
`` Why '' ? 
`` I would like to enact a little tableau this afternoon '' , Rector said , He explained about the visit and the effect he wished to create , the picture of a very busy mission . 
He did not wish to deceive Kayabashi exactly , just to display the mission activities in a graphic and impressive manner . 
Fletcher nodded as he listened to the instructions and said he would arrange the things Rector requested . 
Rector's next stop was at the schoolroom , where Mavis was monitoring a test . 
He beckoned to her from the door and she slipped quietly outside . 
He told her of the visitors and then of his plans . 
`` How many children do you have present today '' ? 
He said . 
She looked back toward the schoolroom . 
`` Fifteen '' , she said . 
`` No , only fourteen . 
The little Ito girl had had to go home . 
She has a pretty bad cold '' . 
`` I would like them to appear very busy today , not busy exactly , but joyous , exuberant , full of life . 
I want to create the impression of a compound full of children . 
Do you think you can manage it '' ? 
Mavis smiled . 
`` I'll try '' . 
As Rector was walking back toward the residential hall , Johnson came out of the basement and bounded up to him . 
The altercation in the coffee house had done little to dampen his spirits , but he was still a little wary around Rector for they had not yet discussed the incident . 
`` I think I've fixed the pump so we won't have to worry about it for a long time '' , he said . 
`` I've adjusted the gauge so that the pump cuts out before the water gets too low . 
'' `` Fine '' , Rector said . 
He looked out over the expanse of the compound . 
It was going to take a lot of activity to fill it . 
`` Have you ever operated a transit '' ? 
He said . 
`` No , sir '' , Johnson said . 
`` You are about to become a first-class surveyor '' , Rector said . 
`` When Konishi gets back with the jeep , I want you to round up two or three Japanese boys . 
Konishi can help you . 
You'll find an old transit in the basement . 
The glass is out of it , but that won't matter . 
It looks pretty efficient and that's the important thing '' . 
He went on to explain what he had in mind . 
Johnson nodded . 
He said he could do it . 
Rector was warming to his over-all strategy by the time he got back to the residential hall . 
It was rather a childish game , all in all , but everybody seemed to be getting into the spirit of the thing and he could not remember when he had enjoyed planning anything quite so much . 
He was not sure what effect it would have , but that was really beside the point when you got right down to it . 
He was not going to lose the mission by default , and whatever reason Kayabashi had for bringing his little sight-seeing group to the mission , he was going to be in for a surprise . 
He found Elizabeth in the parlor and asked her to make sure everything was in order in the residential hall , and then to take charge of the office while the party was here . 
When everything had been done , Rector went back to his desk to occupy himself with his monthly report until three o'clock . 
At two thirty he sent Fujimoto to the top of the wall at the northeast corner of the mission to keep an eye on the ridge road and give a signal when he first glimpsed the approach of Kayabashi's party . 
Then Rector , attired in his best blue serge suit , sat in a chair out on the lawn , in the shade of a tree , smoking a cigarette and waiting . 
The air was cooler here , and the lacy pattern of the trees threw a dappled shadow on the grass , an effect which he found pleasant . 
She concluded by asking him to name another hour should this one be inconvenient . 
The fish took the bait . 
He replied that he could not imagine what importance there might be in thus meeting with a stranger , but -- joy of joys , he would be at home at the hour mentioned . 
But when she called he had thought better of the matter and decided not to involve himself in a new entanglement . 
She was told by the manservant who opened the door that his lordship was engaged on work from which he had left strict orders he was not to be disturbed . 
Claire was bitterly disappointed but determined not to let the rebuff daunt her purpose . 
She wrote again and now , abandoning for the moment the theme of love , she asked for help in the matter of her career . 
She could act and she could write . 
His lordship was concerned in the management of Drury Lane but , if there were no opportunities there , would he read and criticize her novel ? 
At last he consented to meet her , and following that brief interview Claire wrote him a yet more remarkable proposal : Have you any objection to the following plan ? 
On Thursday evening we may go out of town together by some stage or mail about the distance of ten or twelve miles . 
There we shall be free and unknown ; ; we can return the following morning She concluded by asking for a brief interview -- `` to settle with you where '' -- and she threw in a tribute to his `` gentle manners '' and `` the wild originality of your countenance '' . 
She opened his reply with trembling fingers he agreed ! 
And he would see her that evening . 
Victory at last ! 
At their meeting he told her not to bother about `` where '' -- he would attend to that . 
There was one of the new forte-pianos in the room and , as Claire rose to go , he asked her to sing him one song before she left . 
She sang him Scott's charming ballad `` Rosabelle '' , which was the vogue of the moment . 
She had never sung better . 
`` Your voice is delightful '' , he approved with a warm smile . 
`` Tomorrow will be a new experience -- I have never before made love to a nightingale . 
There have been cooing doves , chattering magpies , thieving jackdaws , a proud peacock , a silly goose , and a harpy eagle -- whom I was silly enough to mate with and who is now busy tearing at my vitals '' . 
And so they went , he choosing of all places an inn near Medmenham Abbey , scene a generation ago of the obscene orgies of the Hellfire Club . 
He regaled Claire with an account of the mock mass performed by the cassocked bloods , which he had had at firsthand from old Bud Dodington , one of the leaders of the so-called `` Order '' . 
Each wore the monkish scourge at his waist but this , it seems , was not employed for self-flagellation . 
Naked girls danced in the chancel of the Abbey , the youngest and seemingly the most innocent being chosen to read a sermon filled with veiled depravities . 
The jaded amorist conjured up pictures of the blasphemous rites with relish . 
Alas , all that belonged to the age of `` Devil Dashwood '' and `` Wicked Wilkes '' , abbot and beadsman of the Order ! 
The casual seduction of a seventeen-year-old bluestocking seemed tame by comparison . 
They passed close by the turn to Bishopsgate . 
A scant half mile away Shelley and Mary were doubtless sitting on their diminutive terrace , the air about them scented with stock , and listening to the nightingale who had nested in the big lime tree at the foot of the garden . 
Charming and peaceful -- but what were charm and peace compared to high adventure ? 
Alone with the fabulous Byron ! 
How many women had longed for the privilege that was hers . 
How was she to behave , Claire wondered . 
To be passive , to be girlishly shy was palpably absurd . 
She was the pursuer as clearly as was Venus in Shakespeare's poem . 
And while her Adonis did not suffer from inexperience , satiety might well be an equal handicap . 
No , she would not pretend modesty , but neither must she be crudely bold . 
Mystery -- that was the thing . 
In the bedroom she would insist on darkness . 
With his club foot he might well be grateful . 
At the inn , which was situated close to a broad weir , Byron was greeted by the landlord with obsequious deference and addressed as `` milord '' . 
The place was evidently a familiar haunt and Claire wondered what other illicit loves had been celebrated in the comfortable rooms to which they were shown . 
The fire in the sitting room was lighted . 
`` What about the bedroom '' ? 
Byron inquired . 
`` Seems to me last time I was here the grate bellowed out smoke as it might have been preparing us for hell '' . 
`` We found some owls had built a nest in the chimney , milord , but I promise you you'll never have trouble of that sort again '' . 
So , not only had he been here before , but it seemed he might well come again . 
Claire felt suddenly small and cheap , heroine of a trivial episode in the voluminous history of Don Juan . 
A cold supper was ordered and a bottle of port . 
When Napoleon's ship had borne him to Elba , French wines had started to cross the Channel , the first shipments in a dozen war-ridden years , but the supplies had not yet reached rural hostelries where the sweet wines of the Spanish peninsula still ruled . 
As they waited for supper they sat by the fire , glasses in hand , while Byron philosophized as much for his own entertainment as hers . 
`` Sex is overpriced '' , he said . 
`` The great Greek tragedies are concerned with man against Fate , not man against man for the prize of a woman's body . 
So don't see yourself as a heroine or fancy this little adventure is an event of major importance '' . 
`` The gods seemed to think sex pretty important '' , she rebutted . 
`` Mars and Venus , Bacchus and Ariadne , Jupiter and Io , Byron and the nymph of the owl's nest . 
That would be Minerva , I suppose . 
Wasn't the owl her symbol '' ? 
Byron laughed . 
`` So you know something of the classics , do you '' ? 
`` Tell me about Minerva , how she behaved , what she did to please you '' . 
`` I'll tell you nothing . 
I don't ask you who 'tis you're being unfaithful to , husband or lover . 
Frankly , I don't care '' . 
For a moment she thought of answering with the truth but she knew there were men who shied away from virginity , who demanded some degree of education in body as well as mind . 
`` Very well '' , she said , `` I'll not catechize you . 
What matter the others so long as I have my place in history '' . 
She was striking the right note . 
No man ever had a better opinion of himself and indeed , with one so favored , flattery could hardly seem overdone . 
Brains and beauty , high position in both the social and intellectual worlds , athlete , fabled lover -- if ever the world was any man's oyster it was his . 
The light supper over , Claire went to him and , slipping an arm about his shoulder , sat on his knee . 
He drew her close and , hand on cheek , turned her face to his . 
Her lips , moist and parted , spoke his name . 
`` Byron '' ! 
His hand went to her shoulder and pushed aside the knotted scarf that surmounted the striped poplin gown ; ; then , to better purpose , he took hold of the knot and with dextrous fingers , untied it . 
The bodice beneath was buttoned and , withdrawing his lips from hers , he set her upright on his knee and started to undo it , unhurriedly as if she were a child . 
But , kindled by his kiss , his caressing hand , her desire was aflame . 
She sprang up and went swiftly to the bedroom . 
Lord Byron poured himself another glass of wine and held it up to the candle flame admiring the rich color . 
He drank slowly with due appreciation . 
It was an excellent vintage . 
He rose and went to the bedroom . 
Pausing in the doorway he said : `` The form of the human female , unlike her mind and her spirit , is the most challenging loveliness in all nature '' . 
When Claire returned to Bishopsgate she longed to tell them she had become Byron's mistress . 
By odd coincidence , on the evening of her return Shelley chose to read Parisina , which was the latest of the titled poet's successes . 
As he declaimed the sonorous measures , it was as much as Claire could do to restrain herself from bursting out with her dramatic tidings . 
`` Although it is not the best of which he is capable '' , said Shelley as he closed the book , `` it is still poetry of a high order '' . 
`` If he would only leave the East '' , said Mary . 
`` I am tired of sultans and scimitars '' . 
`` The hero of his next poem is Napoleon Bonaparte '' , said Claire , with slightly overdone carelessness . 
`` How do you know that '' ? 
Demanded Mary . 
`` I was told it on good authority '' , Claire answered darkly . 
`` I mustn't tell , I mustn't tell '' , she repeated to herself . 
`` I promised him I wouldn't '' . 
Chapter 9 winter came , and with it Mary's baby -- a boy as she had wished . 
William , he was called , in honor of the man who was at once Shelley's pensioner and his most bitter detractor . 
With a pardonable irony Shelley wrote to the father who had publicly disowned his daughter : `` Fanny and Mrs. Godwin will probably be glad to hear that Mary has safely recovered from a very favorable confinement , and that her child is well '' . 
At the same time another child -- this one of Shelley's brain -- was given to the world : Alastor , a poem of pervading beauty in which the reader may gaze into the still depths of a fine mind's musings . 
Alastor was published only to be savagely attacked , contemptuously ignored . 
Shelley sent a copy to Southey , a former friend , and another to Godwin . 
Neither acknowledged the gift . 
Only Mary's praise sustained him in his disappointment . 
She understood completely . 
Not a thought nor a cadence was missed in her summary of appreciation . 
`` You have made the labor worth while '' , he said to her , smiling . 
`` And in the future , since I write for a public of one , I can save the poor publishers from wasting their money '' . 
`` A public of one '' , Mary echoed reprovingly . 
`` How can you say such a thing ? 
There will be thousands who will thrill to the loveliness of Alastor . 
There are some even now . 
What about that dear , clever Mr. Thynne ? 
I am sure he is in raptures '' . 
`` Poor Mr. Thynne , he always has to be trotted out for my encouragement '' . 
`` There are other Mr. Thynnes . 
Not everyone is bewitched by Byron's caliphs and harem beauties '' . 
Mary's supercritical attitude toward Byron had nothing to do with his moral disrepute . 
She was resentful of his easy success as compared with Shelley's failure . 
The same month that Alastor was published , Murray sold twenty thousand copies of The Siege Of Corinth , a slovenly bit of Byronism that even Shelley's generosity rebelled at . 
The lordly poet was at low-water mark . 
The careless writing was in keeping with his mood of savage discontent . 
On all sides doors were being slammed in his face . 
The previous scandals , gaily diverting as they were , had only served to increase his popularity . 
Now , under the impact of his wife's disclosures , he was brought suddenly to the realization that there was a limit to tolerance , however brilliant , however far-famed the offender might be . 
He tried defiance and openly flaunted his devotion to his half sister , but he soon saw , as did she , that this course if persisted in would involve them in a common ruin . 
For the moment there was no woman in his life , and it was this vacuum that had given Claire her opportunity . 
But the liaison successfully started in the last days of autumn was now languishing . 
Byron , since the separation from his wife had been living in a smallish house in Piccadilly Terrace . 
He refused to bring Claire to it even as an occasional visitor , claiming that his every move was watched by spies of the Milbankes . 
Beckworth handed the pass to the colonel . 
He had thought that the suggestion of taking it himself would tip the colonel in the direction of serving his own order , but the slip of paper was folded and absently thrust into the colonel's belt . 
Despite his yearning , the colonel would not go down to see the men come through the lines . 
He would remain in the tent , waiting impatiently , occupied by some trivial task . 
-- Beckworth . 
-- Sir ? 
-- Fetch me the copies of everything B and C companies have requisitioned in the last six months . 
-- The last six months , sir ? 
-- You heard me . 
There's a lot of waste going on here . 
It's got to stop . 
I want to take a look . 
This is no damned holiday , Beckworth . 
Get busy . 
-- Yes , sir . 
Beckworth left the tent . 
Below he could see the bright torches lighting the riverbank . 
He glanced back . 
The colonel crouched tensely on one of the folding chairs , methodically tearing at his thumbnail . 
The bombproof was a low-ceilinged structure of heavy timbers covered with earth . 
It stood some fifty paces from the edge of the bank . 
From the outside , it seemed no more than a low drumlin , a lump on the dark earth . 
A crude ladder ran down to a wooden floor . 
Two slits enabled observers to watch across the river . 
The place smelled strongly of rank , fertile earth , rotting wood and urine . 
The plank floor was slimed beneath Watson's boots . 
At least the Union officer had been decent enough to provide a candle . 
There was no place to sit , but Watson walked slowly from the ladder to the window slits and back , stooping slightly to avoid striking his head on the heavy beams . 
In the corner was the soldier with the white flag . 
He stood stiffly erect , clutching the staff , his body half hidden by the limp cloth . 
Watson hardly looked at him . 
The man had come floundering aboard the flat-bottomed barge at the last instant , brandishing the flag of truce . 
Someone had hauled him over the side , and he had remained silent while they crossed . 
An officer with a squad of men had been waiting on the bank . 
The men in the boats had started yelling happily at first sight of the officer , two of them calling him Billy . 
When the boat had touched , the weaker ones and the two wounded men had been lifted out and carried away by the soldiers . 
Watson had presented his pouch and been led to the bombproof . 
The officer had told him that both lists must be checked . 
Watson had given his name and asked for a safe-conduct pass . 
The officer , surprised , said he would have to see . 
Watson had nodded absently and muttered that he would check the lists himself later . 
He had peered through the darkness at the rampart . 
The men he would take back across the river stood there , but he turned away from them . 
He wanted no part of the emotions of the exchange , no memory of the joy and gratitude that other men felt . 
He had hoped to be alone in the bombproof , but the soldier had followed him . 
Though Watson carefully ignored the man , he could not deny his presence . 
Perhaps it would be better to speak to him , since silence could not exorcise his form . 
Watson glanced briefly at him , seeing only a body rigidly erect behind the languid banner . 
-- We won't be too long . 
If my pass is approved , I may be a half hour . 
The soldier answered in a curious , muffled voice , his lips barely moving . 
Watson turned away and did not see the man's knees buckle and his body sag . 
-- Yes , sir . 
He had acknowledged the man . 
It was easier to think now , Watson decided . 
The stiff figure in the corner no longer blocked his thoughts . 
He paced slowly , stooping , staring at the damp , slippery floor . 
He tried to order the words of the three Union officers , seeking to create some coherent portrait of the dead boy . 
But he groped blindly . 
His lack of success steadily eroded his interest . 
He stopped pacing , leaned against the dank , timbered wall and let his mind drift . 
A feeling of futility , an enervation of mind greater than any fatigue he had ever known , seeped through him . 
What in the name of God was he doing , crouched in a timbered pit on the wrong bank of the river ? 
Why had he crossed the dark water , to bring back a group of reclaimed soldiers or to skulk in a foul-smelling hole ? 
He grew annoyed and at the same time surprised at that emotion . 
He was conscious of a growing sense of absurdity . 
Hillman had written it all out , hadn't he ? 
Wasn't the report official enough ? 
What did he hope to accomplish here ? 
Hillman had ordered him not to leave the far bank . 
Prompted by a guilty urge , he had disobeyed the order of a man he respected . 
For what ? 
To tell John something he would find out for himself . 
The figure in the corner belched loudly , a deep , liquid eruption . 
Watson snorted and then laughed aloud . 
Exactly ! 
The soldier's voice was muffled again , stricken with chagrin . 
He clutched the staff , and his dark eyes blinked apologetically . 
-- 'scuse me , sir . 
-- Let's get out of here . 
Watson ran up the ladder and stood for a second sucking in the cool air that smelled of mud and river weeds . 
To his left , the two skiffs dented their sharp bows into the soft bank . 
The flat-bottomed boat swung slowly to the pull of the current . 
A soldier held the end of a frayed rope . 
Three Union guards appeared , carrying their rifles at ready . 
Watson stared at them curiously . 
They were stocky men , well fed and clean-shaven , with neat uniforms and sturdy boots . 
Behind them shambled a long column of weak , tattered men . 
The thin gray figures raised a hoarse , cawing cry like the call of a bird flock . 
They moved toward the skiffs with shocking eagerness , elbowing and shoving . 
Four men were knocked down , but did not attempt to rise . 
They crept down the muddy slope toward the waiting boats . 
The Union soldiers grounded arms and settled into healthy , indifferent postures to watch the feeble boarding of the skiffs . 
The crawling men tried to rise and fell again . 
No one moved to them . 
Watson watched two of them flounder into the shallow water and listened to their voices beg shrilly . 
In a confused , soaked and stumbling shift of bodies and lifting arms , the two men were dragged into the same skiff . 
The third crawling man forced himself erect . 
He swayed like a drunkard , his arms milling in slow circles . 
He paced forward unsteadily , leaning too far back , his head tilted oddly . 
His steps were short and stiff , and , with his head thrown back , his progress was a supercilious strut . 
He appeared to be peering haughtily down his nose at the crowded and unclean vessel that would carry him to freedom . 
He stalked into the water and fell heavily over the side of the flat-bottomed barge , his weight nearly swamping the craft . 
Watson looked for the fourth man . 
He had reached the three passive guards ; ; he crept in an incertain manner , patting the ground before him . 
The guards did not look at him . 
The figure on the earth halted , seemingly bewildered . 
He sank back on his thin haunches like a weary hound . 
Then he began to crawl again . 
Watson watched the creeping figure . 
He felt a spectator interest . 
Would the man make it or not ? 
If only there was a clock for him to crawl against . 
If he failed to reach the riverbank in five minutes , say , then the skiffs would pull away and leave him groping in the mud . 
Say three minutes to make it sporting . 
Still the guards did not move , but stood inert , aloof from the slow-scrambling man . 
The figure halted , and Watson gasped . 
The man began to creep in the wrong direction , deceived by a slight rise in the ground ! 
He turned slowly and began to crawl back up the bank toward the rampart . 
Watson raced for him , his boots slamming the soft earth . 
The guards came to life with astonishing menace . 
They spun and flung their rifles up . 
Watson gesticulated wildly . 
One man dropped to his knee for better aim . 
-- Let me help him , for the love of God ! 
The guards lowered their rifles and their rifles and peered at Watson with sullen , puzzled faces . 
Watson pounded to the crawling man and stopped , panting heavily . 
He reached down and closed his fingers on the man's upper arm . 
Beneath his clutch , a flat strip of muscle surged on the bone . 
Watson bent awkwardly and lifted the man to his feet . 
Watson stared into a cadaverous face . 
Two clotted balls the color of mucus rolled between fiery lids . 
Light sticks of fingers , the tips gummy with dark earth , patted at Watson's throat . 
The man's voice was a sweet , patient whisper . 
-- Henry said that he'd take my arm and get me right there . 
But you ain't Henry . 
-- no . 
-- It don't matter . 
Is it far ? 
How far could it be , Watson thought bleakly , how far can a blind man crawl ? 
Another body length or all the rest of his nighted life ? 
-- Not far . 
-- You talk deep . 
Not like us fellas . 
It raises the voice , bein in camp . 
You Secesh ? 
-- yes . 
Come on , now . 
Can you walk ? 
-- Why , course I can . 
I can walk real good . 
Watson stumbled down the bank . 
The man leaned his frail body against Watson's shoulder . 
He was no heavier than a child . 
Watson paused for breath . 
The man wheezed weakly , his fetid breath beating softly against Watson's neck . 
His sweet whisper came after great effort . 
-- Oh , Christ . 
I wish you was Henry . 
He promised to take me . 
-- hush . 
We're almost there . 
Watson supported the man to the edge of the bank and passed the frail figure over the bow of the nearest skiff . 
The man swayed on a thwart , turning his ruined eyes from side to side . 
Watson turned away , sickened for the first time in many months . 
He heard the patient voice calling . 
-- Henry ? 
Where are you , Henry ? 
-- Make him lie down ! 
Watson snatched a deep breath . 
He had not meant to shout . 
He stood with his back to the skiff . 
The men mewed and scratched , begging to be taken away . 
Watson spoke bewilderedly to the dark night flecked with pine-knot torches . 
-- Goddamn you ! 
What do you do to them ? 
Intelligence jabbed at him accusingly . 
He was angry , sickened . 
He had not felt that during the afternoon . 
No , nor later . 
All his emotions had been inward , self-conscious . 
In war , on a night like this , it was only the outward emotions that mattered , what could be flung out into the darkness to damage others . 
Yes . 
That was it . 
He was sure of it . 
John's type of man allowed this sort of thing to happen . 
What a fool he had been to think of his brother ! 
So Charles was dead . 
What did it matter ? 
His name had been crossed off a list . 
Already his cool body lay in the ground . 
What words had any meaning ? 
What had he thought of , to go to John , grovel and beg understanding ? 
To confess with a canvas chair as a prie-dieu , gouging at his heart until a rough and stupid hand bade him rise and go ? 
Men were slaughtered every day , tumbled into eternity like so many torn parcels flung down a portable chute . 
What made him think John had a right to witness his brother's humiliation ? 
What right had John to any special consideration ? 
Was John better , more deserving ? 
To hell with John . 
Let him chafe with impatience to see Charles , rip open the note with trembling hands and read the formal report in Hillman's beautiful , schoolmaster's hand . 
John would curse . 
He believed that brave boys didn't cry . 
Watson spat on the ground . 
He was grimly satisfied . 
He had stupidly thought himself compelled to ease his brother's pain . 
Now he knew perfectly that he had but longed to increase his own suffering . 
I would not want to be one of those writers who begin each morning by exclaiming , `` O Gogol , O Chekhov , O Thackeray and Dickens , what would you have made of a bomb shelter ornamented with four plaster-of-Paris ducks , a birdbath , and three composition gnomes with long beards and red mobcaps '' ? 
As I say , I wouldn't want to begin a day like this , but I often wonder what the dead would have done . 
But the shelter is as much a part of my landscape as the beech and horse-chestnut trees that grow on the ridge . 
I can see it from this window where I write . 
It was built by the Pasterns , and stands on the acre of ground that adjoins our property . 
It bulks under a veil of thin , new grass , like some embarrassing fact of physicalness , and I think Mrs. Pastern set out the statuary to soften its meaning . 
It would have been like her . 
She was a pale woman . 
Sitting on her terrace , sitting in her parlor , sitting anywhere , she ground an axe of self-esteem . 
Offer her a cup of tea and she would say , `` Why , these cups look just like a set I gave to the Salvation Army last year '' . 
Show her the new swimming pool and she would say , slapping her ankle , `` I suppose this must be where you breed your gigantic mosquitoes '' . 
Hand her a chair and she would say , `` Why , it's a nice imitation of those Queen Anne chairs I inherited from Grandmother Delancy '' . 
These trumps were more touching than they were anything else , and seemed to imply that the nights were long , her children ungrateful , and her marriage bewilderingly threadbare . 
Twenty years ago , she would have been known as a golf widow , and the sum of her manner was perhaps one of bereavement . 
She usually wore weeds , and a stranger watching her board a train might have guessed that Mr. Pastern was dead , but Mr. Pastern was far from dead . 
He was marching up and down the locker room of the Grassy Brae Golf Club shouting , `` Bomb Cuba ! 
Bomb Berlin ! 
Let's throw a little nuclear hardware at them and show them who's boss '' . 
He was brigadier of the club's locker-room light infantry , and at one time or another declared war on Russia , Czechoslovakia , Yugoslavia , and China . 
It all began on an autumn afternoon -- and who , after all these centuries , can describe the fineness of an autumn day ? 
One might pretend never to have seen one before , or , to more purpose , that there would never be another like it . 
The clear and searching sweep of sun on the lawns was like a climax of the year's lights . 
Leaves were burning somewhere and the smoke smelled , for all its ammoniac acidity , of beginnings . 
The boundless blue air was stretched over the zenith like the skin of a drum . 
Leaving her house one late afternoon , Mrs. Pastern stopped to admire the October light . 
It was the day to canvass for infectious hepatitis . 
Mrs. Pastern had been given sixteen names , a bundle of literature , and a printed book of receipts . 
It was her work to go among her neighbors and collect their checks . 
Her house stood on a rise of ground , and before she got into her car she looked at the houses below . 
Charity as she knew it was complex and reciprocal , and almost every roof she saw signified charity . 
Mrs. Balcolm worked for the brain . 
Mrs. Ten Eyke did mental health . 
Mrs. Trenchard worked for the blind . 
Mrs. Horowitz was in charge of diseases of the nose and throat . 
Mrs. Trempler was tuberculosis , Mrs. Surcliffe was Mothers' March of Dimes , Mrs. Craven was cancer , and Mrs. Gilkson did the kidney . 
Mrs. Hewlitt led the birthcontrol league , Mrs. Ryerson was arthritis , and way in the distance could be seen the slate roof of Ethel Littleton's house , a roof that signified gout . 
Mrs. Pastern undertook the work of going from house to house with the thoughtless resignation of an honest and traditional laborer . 
It was her destiny ; ; it was her life . 
Her mother had done it before her , and even her old grandmother , who had collected money for smallpox and unwed mothers . 
Mrs. Pastern had telephoned most of her neighbors in advance , and most of them were ready for her . 
She experienced none of the suspense of some poor stranger selling encyclopedias . 
Here and there she stayed to visit and drink a glass of sherry . 
The contributions were ahead of what she had got the previous year , and while the money , of course , was not hers , it excited her to stuff her kit with big checks . 
She stopped at the Surcliffes' after dusk , and had a Scotch-and-soda . 
She stayed too late , and when she left , it was dark and time to go home and cook supper for her husband . 
`` I got a hundred and sixty dollars for the hepatitis fund '' , she said excitedly when he walked in . 
`` I did everybody on my list but the Blevins and the Flannagans . 
I want to get my kit in tomorrow morning -- would you mind doing them while I cook the dinner '' ? 
`` But I don't know the Flannagans '' , Charlie Pastern said . 
`` Nobody does , but they gave me ten last year '' . 
He was tired , he had his business worries , and the sight of his wife arranging pork chops in the broiler only seemed like an extension of a boring day . 
He was happy enough to take the convertible and race up the hill to the Blevins' , thinking that they might give him a drink . 
But the Blevins were away ; ; their maid gave him an envelope with a check in it and shut the door . 
Turning in at the Flannagans' driveway , he tried to remember if he had ever met them . 
The name encouraged him , because he always felt that he could handle the Irish . 
There was a glass pane in the front door , and through this he could see into a hallway where a plump woman with red hair was arranging flowers . 
`` Infectious hepatitis '' , he shouted heartily . 
She took a good look at herself in the mirror before she turned and , walking with very small steps , started toward the door . 
`` Oh , please come in '' , she said . 
The girlish voice was nearly a whisper . 
She was not a girl , he could see . 
Her hair was dyed , and her bloom was fading , and she must have been crowding forty , but she seemed to be one of those women who cling to the manners and graces of a pretty child of eight . 
`` Your wife just called '' , she said , separating one word from another , exactly like a child . 
`` And I am not sure that I have any cash -- any money , that is -- but if you will wait just a minute I will write you out a check if I can find my checkbook . 
Won't you step into the living room , where it's cozier '' ? 
A fire had just been lighted , he saw , and things had been set out for drinks , and , like any stray , his response to these comforts was instantaneous . 
Where was Mr. Flannagan , he wondered . 
Travelling home on a late train ? 
Changing his clothes upstairs ? 
Taking a shower ? 
At the end of the room there was a desk heaped with papers , and she began to riffle these , making sighs and and noises of girlish exasperation . 
`` I am terribly sorry to keep you waiting '' , she said , `` but won't you make yourself a little drink while you wait ? 
Everything's on the table '' . 
`` What train does Mr. Flannagan come out on '' ? 
`` Mr. Flannagan is away '' , she said . 
Her voice dropped . 
`` Mr. Flannagan has been away for six weeks . 
'' `` I'll have a drink , then , if you'll have one with me '' . 
`` If you will promise to make it weak '' . 
`` Sit down '' , he said , `` and enjoy your drink and look for your checkbook later . 
The only way to find things is to relax '' . 
All in all , they had six drinks . 
She described herself and her circumstances unhesitatingly . 
Mr. Flannagan manufactured plastic tongue depressors . 
He travelled all over the world . 
She didn't like to travel . 
Planes made her feel faint , and in Tokyo , where she had gone that summer , she had been given raw fish for breakfast and so she had come straight home . 
She and her husband had formerly lived in New York , where she had many friends , but Mr. Flannagan thought the country would be safer in case of war . 
She would rather live in danger than die of loneliness and boredom . 
She had no children ; ; she had made no friends . 
`` I've seen you , though , before '' , she said with enormous coyness , patting his knee . 
`` I've seen you walking your dogs on Sunday and driving by in the convertible . 
'' The thought of this lonely woman sitting at her window touched him , although he was even more touched by her plumpness . 
Sheer plumpness , he knew , is not a vital part of the body and has no procreative functions . 
It serves merely as an excess cushion for the rest of the carcass . 
And knowing its humble place in the scale of things , why did he , at this time of life , seem almost ready to sell his soul for plumpness ? 
The remarks she made about the sufferings of a lonely woman seemed so broad at first that he didn't know what to make of them , but after the sixth drink he put his arm around her and suggested that they go upstairs and look for her checkbook there . 
`` I've never done this before '' , she said later , when he was arranging himself to leave . 
Her voice shook with feeling , and he thought it lovely . 
He didn't doubt her truthfulness , although he had heard the words a hundred times . 
`` I've never done this before '' , they always said , shaking their dresses down over their white shoulders . 
`` I've never done this before '' , they always said , waiting for the elevator in the hotel corridor . 
`` I've never done this before '' , they always said , pouring another whiskey . 
`` I've never done this before '' , they always said , putting on their stockings . 
On ships at sea , on railroad trains , in summer hotels with mountain views , they always said , `` I've never done this before '' . 
`` Where have you been '' ? 
Mrs. Pastern asked sadly , when he came in . 
`` It's after eleven '' . 
`` I had a drink with the Flannagans '' . 
`` She told me he was in Germany '' . 
`` He came home unexpectedly '' . 
Charlie ate some supper in the kitchen and went into the TV room to hear the news . 
`` Bomb them '' ! 
He shouted . 
`` Throw a little nuclear hardware at them ! 
Show them who's boss '' ! 
But in bed he had trouble sleeping . 
He thought first of his son and daughter , away at college . 
He loved them . 
It was the only meaning of the word that he had ever known . 
Then he played nine imaginary holes of golf , choosing his handicap , his irons , his stance , his opponents , and his weather in detail , but the green of the links seemed faded in the light of his business worries . 
His money was tied up in a Nassau hotel , an Ohio pottery works , and a detergent for window-washing , and luck had been running against him . 
His worries harried him up out of bed , and he lighted a cigarette and went to the window . 
In the starlight he could see the trees stripped of their leaves . 
During the summer he had tried to repair some of his losses at the track , and the bare trees reminded him that his pari-mutuel tickets would still be lying , like leaves , in the gutters near Belmont and Saratoga . 
Maple and ash , beech and elm , one hundred to win on Three in the fourth , fifty to win on Six in the third , one hundred to win on Two in the eighth . 
Children walking home from school would scuff through what seemed to be his foliage . 
Then , getting back into bed , he thought unashamedly of Mrs. Flannagan , planning where they would next meet and what they would do . 
There are , he thought , so few true means of forgetfulness in this life that why should he shun the medicine even when the medicine seemed , as it did , a little crude ? 
It was not as though she noted clearly that her nephews had not been to see her for ten years , not since their last journey eastward to witness their Uncle Izaak being lowered into the rocky soil ; ; that aside from due notification of certain major events in their lives ( two marriages , two births , one divorce ) , Christmas and Easter cards of the traditional sort had been the only thin link she had with them through the widowed years . 
Her thoughts were not discrete . 
But there was a look about her mouth as though she were tasting lemons . 
She grasped the chair arms and brought her thin body upright , like a bird alert for flight . 
She turned and walked stiffly into the parlor to the dainty-legged escritoire , warped and cracked now from fifty years in an atmosphere of sea spray . 
There she extracted two limp vellum sheets and wrote off the letters , one to Abel , one to Mark . 
Once her trembling hand , with the pen grasped tight in it , was pressed against the paper the words came sharply , smoothly , as authoritatively as they would dropping from her own lips . 
And the stiffly regal look of them , she saw grimly , lacked the quaver of age which , thwarting the efforts of her amazing will , ran through her spoken words like a thin ragged string . 
`` Please come down as soon as you conveniently can '' , the upright letters stalked from the broad-nibbed pen , `` I have an important matter to discuss with you '' . 
To Abel : `` I am afraid there is not much to amuse small children here . 
I should be obliged if you could make other arrangements for your daughters . 
You may stay as long as you wish , of course , but if arranging for the care of the girls must take time into account , I think a day or two should be enough to finish our business in '' . 
To Mark : `` Please give my regards to Myra '' . 
She signed the letters quickly , stamped them , and placed them on the hall table for Raphael to mail in town . 
Then she went back to the wicker chair and resolutely adjusted her eyes to the glare on the water . 
`` My nephews will be coming down '' , she said that evening as Angelina brought her dinner into the dining room , the whole meal on a vast linen-covered tray . 
She looked at the girl speculatively from eyes which had paled with the years ; ; from the early evening lights of them which had first startled Izaak to look at her in an uncousinly way , they had faded to a near-absence of color which had , possibly from her constant looking at the water , something of the light of the sea in them . 
Angelina placed the tray on the table and with a flick of dark wrist drew off the cloth . 
She smiled , and the teeth gleamed in her beautifully modeled olive face . 
`` That will be so nice for you , Mrs. Packard '' , she said . 
Her voice was ripe and full and her teeth flashed again in Sicilian brilliance before the warm curved lips met and her mouth settled in repose . 
`` Um '' , said the old lady , and brought her eyes down to the tray . 
`` You remember them , I suppose '' ? 
She glinted suspiciously at the dish before her : `` blowfish . 
I hope Raphael bought them whole '' . 
Angelina stepped back , her eyes roaming the tray for omissions . 
Then she looked at the old woman again , her eyes calm . 
`` Yes '' , she said , `` I remember that they came here every summer . 
I used to play with the older one sometimes , when he'd let me . 
Abel '' ? 
The name fell with lazy affectionate remembrance from her lips . 
For an instant the old aunt felt something indefinable flash through her smile . 
She would have said triumph . 
Then Angelina turned and with an easy grace walked toward the kitchen . 
Jessica Packard lifted her head and followed the retreating figure , her eyes resting nearly closed on the unself-conscious rise and fall of the rounded hips . 
For a moment she held her face to the empty doorway ; ; then she snorted and groped for her fork . 
There's no greater catastrophe in the universe , she reflected dourly , impaling tender green beans on the silver fork , than the dwindling away of a family . 
Procreation , expansion , proliferation -- these are the laws of living things , with the penalty for not obeying them the ultimate in punishments : oblivion . 
When the fate of the individual is visited on the group , then ( the warm sweet butter dripped from her raised trembling fork and she pushed her head forward belligerently ) , ah , then the true bitterness of existence could be tasted . 
And indeed the young garden beans were brackish in her mouth . 
She was the last living of the older generation . 
What had once been a widespread family -- at one time , she knew , there were enough Packards to populate an entire county -- had now narrowed down to the two boys , Abel and Mark . 
She swung her eyes up to the blue of the window , her jaws gently mashing the bitter beans . 
What hope lay in the nephews , she asked the intensifying light out there , with one married to a barren woman and the other divorced , having sired two girl children , with none to bear on the Packard name ? 
She ate . 
It seemed to her , as it seemed each night , that the gloom drew itself in and became densest at the table's empty chairs , giving her the frequent illusion that she dined with shadows . 
Here , too , she talked low , quirking her head at one or another of the places , most often at Izaak's armchair which faced her across the long table . 
Or it might have been the absent nephews she addressed , consciously playing with the notion that this was one of the summers of their early years . 
She thought again of her children , those two who had died young , before the later science which might have saved them could attach even a label to their separate malignancies . 
The girl , her first , she barely remembered . 
It could have been anyone's infant , for it had not survived the bassinet . 
But the boy the boy had been alive yesterday . 
Each successive movement in his growing was recorded on the unreeling film inside her . 
He ran on his plump sticks of legs , freezing now and again into the sudden startled attitudes which the camera had caught and held on the paling photographs , all carefully placed and glued and labeled , resting in the fat plush album in the bottom drawer of the escritoire . 
In the cruel clearness of her memory the boy remained unchanged , quick with the delight of laughter , and the pain with which she recalled that short destroyed childhood was still unendurable to her . 
It was one with the desolate rocks and the alien water on those days when she hated the sea . 
The brothers drove down together in Mark's small red sports car , Mark at the wheel . 
They rarely spoke . 
Abel sat and regarded the farm country which , spreading out from both sides of the road , rolled greenly up to where the silent white houses and long barns and silos nested into the tilled fields . 
He saw the land with a stranger's eyes , all the old familiarness gone . 
And it presented itself to him as it would to any stranger , impervious , complete in itself . 
There was stability there , too -- a color which his life had had once . 
That is what childhood is , he told himself . 
Solid , settled lost . 
In the stiff neutral lines of the telephone poles he saw the no-nonsense pen strokes of Aunt Jessica's letter . 
What bad grace , what incredible selfishness he and Mark had shown . 
The boyhood summers preceding their uncle's funeral might never have been . 
They had closed over , absolutely , with the sealing of old Izaak's grave . 
The small car flew on relentlessly . 
The old woman , stubbornly reigning in the house above the crashing waters took on an ominous reality . 
Abel moved and adjusted his long legs . 
`` I suppose it has to do with the property '' , Mark had said over the telephone when they had discussed their receipt of the letters . 
Not until the words had been spoken did Abel suddenly see the old house and the insistent sea , and feel his contrition blotted out in one shameful moment of covetousness . 
He and Mark were the last of the family , and there lay the Cape Ann property which had seemed to have no end , stretching from horizon to horizon , in those golden days of summer . 
Now Abel turned his head to look at his brother . 
Mark held the wheel loosely , but his fingers curved around it in a purposeful way and the deliberate set of his body spoke plainly of the figure he'd make in the years to come . 
His sandy hair was already beginning to thin and recede at the sides , and Abel looked quickly away . 
Mark easily looked years older than himself , settled , his world comfortably categorized . 
The vacation traffic was becoming heavier as they approached the sea . 
`` She didn't mention bringing Myra '' , Mark said , maneuvering the car into the next lane . 
`` She's probably getting old -- crotchety , I mean -- and we figured uh-uh , better not . 
They've never met , you know . 
But Myra wouldn't budge without an express invitation . 
I feel kind of bad about it '' . 
He gave Abel a quick glance and moved closer to the wheel , hugging it to him , and Abel caught this briefest of allusions to guilt . 
`` I imagine the old girl hasn't missed us much '' , Mark added , his eyes on the road . 
Abel ignored the half-expressed bid for confirmation . 
He smiled . 
It was barely possible that his brother was right . 
He could tell they were approaching the sea . 
The air took on a special strength now that they'd left the fecund warmth of the farmland behind . 
There was the smell of the coast , like a primeval memory , composed of equal parts salt water , clams , seaweed and northern air . 
He turned from the flying trees to look ahead and saw with an inward boy's eye again the great fieldstone house which , built on one of the many acres of ancestral land bordering the west harbor , had been Izaak's bride-gift to his cousin-wife as the last century ended . 
Mark's thoughts must have been keeping silent pace beside his own , climbing the same crags in dirty white sneakers , clambering out on top of the headland and coming upon the sudden glinting water at the same instant . 
`` Remember the Starbird ? 
'' Mark asked , and Abel lifted his eyes from the double lines in the middle of the road , the twin white ribbons which the car swallowed rapidly as it ascended the crest of the hill and came down . 
`` The Starbird , '' Abel said . 
There was the day Uncle Izaak had , in an unexpected grandiose gesture , handed over the pretty sloop to Abel for keeps , on condition that he never fail to let his brother accompany him whenever younger the boy wished . 
The two of them had developed into a remarkable sailing team all of this happening in a time of their lives when their youth and their brotherhood knitted them together as no other time or circumstance could . 
They seemed then to have had a single mind and body , a mutuality which had been accepted with the fact of their youth , casually . 
He saw the Starbird as she lay , her slender mast up and gently turning , its point describing constant languid circles against a cumulus sky . 
Both of them had known the feeling of the small life in her waiting , ready , for the two of them to run up her sails . 
The Starbird had been long at the bottom of the bay . 
They came unexpectedly upon the sea . 
Meeting it without preparation as they did , robbed of anticipation , a common disappointment seized them . 
They were climbing the hill in the night when the headlights abruptly probed solid blackness , became two parallel luminous tubes which broadened out into a faint mist of light and ended . 
Mark stopped the car and switched off the lights and they sat looking at the water , which , there being no moon out , at first could be distinguished from the sky only by an absence of stars . 
His eyes were old and they never saw well , but heated with whisky they'd glare at my noise , growing red and raising up his rage . 
I decided I hated the Pedersen kid too , dying in our kitchen while I was away where I couldn't watch , dying just to entertain Hans and making me go up snapping steps and down a drafty hall , Pa lumped under the covers at the end like dung covered with snow , snoring and whistling . 
Oh he'd not care about the Pedersen kid . 
He'd not care about getting waked so he could give up some of his whisky to a slit of a kid and maybe lose one of his hiding places in the bargain . 
That would make him mad enough if he was sober . 
I didn't hurry though it was cold and the Pedersen kid was in the kitchen . 
He was all shoveled up like I thought he'd be . 
I pushed at his shoulder , calling his name . 
I think his name stopped the snoring but he didn't move except to roll a little when I shoved him . 
The covers slid down his skinny neck so I saw his head , fuzzed like a dandelion gone to seed , but his face was turned to the wall -- there was the pale shadow of his nose on the plaster -- and I thought , Well you don't look much like a pig-drunk bully now . 
I couldn't be sure he was still asleep . 
He was a cagey sonofabitch . 
I shook him a little harder and made some noise . 
`` Pap-pap-pap-hey '' , I said . 
I was leaning too far over . 
I knew better . 
He always slept close to the wall so you had to lean to reach him . 
Oh he was smart . 
It put you off . 
I knew better but I was thinking of the Pedersen kid mother-naked in all that dough . 
When his arm came up I ducked away but it caught me on the side of the neck , watering my eyes , and I backed off to cough . 
Pa was on his side , looking at me , his eyes winking , the hand that had hit me a fist in the pillow . 
`` Get the hell out of here '' . 
I didn't say anything , trying to get my throat clear , but I watched him . 
He was like a mean horse to come at from the rear . 
It was better , though , he'd hit me . 
He was bitter when he missed . 
`` Get the hell out of here '' . 
`` Big Hans sent me . 
He told me to wake you '' . 
`` A fat hell on Big Hans . 
Get out of here '' . 
`` He found the Pedersen kid by the crib '' . 
`` Get the hell out '' . 
Pa pulled at the covers . 
He was tasting his mouth . 
`` The kid's froze good . 
Hans is rubbing him with snow . 
He's got him in the kitchen '' . 
`` Pedersen '' ? 
`` No , Pa . 
It's the Pedersen kid . 
The kid '' . 
`` Nothing to steal from the crib '' . 
`` Not stealing , Pa . 
He was just lying there . 
Hans found him froze . 
That's where he was when Hans found him '' . 
Pa laughed . 
`` I ain't hid nothing in the crib '' . 
`` You don't understand , Pa . 
The Pedersen kid . 
The kid '' -- `` I goddamn well understand '' . 
Pa had his head up , glaring , his teeth gnawing at the place where he'd grown a mustache once . 
`` I goddamn well understand . 
You know I don't want to see Pedersen . 
That cock . 
Why should I ? 
What did he come for , hey ? 
God dammit , get . 
And don't come back . 
Find out something . 
You're a fool . 
Both you and Hans . 
Pedersen . 
That cock . 
Don't come back . 
Out . 
Out '' . 
He was shouting and breathing hard and closing his fist on the pillow . 
He had long black hairs on his wrist . 
They curled around the cuff of his nightshirt . 
`` Big Hans made me come . 
Big Hans said '' -- `` A fat hell on Big Hans . 
He's an even bigger fool than you are . 
Fat , hey ? 
I taught him , dammit , and I'll teach you . 
Out . 
You want me to drop my pot '' ? 
He was about to get up so I got out , slamming the door . 
He was beginning to see he was too mad to sleep . 
Then he threw things . 
Once he went after Hans and dumped his pot over the banister . 
Pa'd been shit-sick in that pot . 
Hans got an axe . 
He didn't even bother to wipe himself off and he chopped part of Pa's door down before he stopped . 
He might not have gone that far if Pa hadn't been locked in laughing fit to shake the house . 
That pot put Pa in an awful good humor whenever he thought of it . 
I always felt the memory was present in both of them , stirring in their chests like a laugh or a growl , as eager as an animal to be out . 
I heard Pa cursing all the way downstairs . 
Hans had laid steaming towels over the kid's chest and stomach . 
He was rubbing snow on the kid's legs and feet . 
Water from the snow and water from the towels had run off the kid to the table where the dough was , and the dough was turning pasty , sticking to the kid's back and behind . 
`` Ain't he going to wake up '' ? 
`` What about your pa '' ? 
`` He was awake when I left '' . 
`` What'd he say ? 
Did you get the whisky '' ? 
`` He said a fat hell on Big Hans '' . 
`` Don't be smart . 
Did you ask him about the whisky '' ? 
`` Yeah '' . 
`` Well '' ? 
`` He said a fat hell on Big Hans '' . 
`` Don't be smart . 
What's he going to do '' ? 
`` Go back to sleep most likely '' . 
`` You'd best get that whisky '' . 
`` You go . 
Take the axe . 
Pa's scared to hell of axes '' . 
`` Listen to me , Jorge , I've had enough to your sassing . 
This kid's froze bad . 
If I don't get some whisky down him he might die . 
You want the kid to die ? 
Do you ? 
Well , get your pa and get that whisky '' . 
`` Pa don't care about the kid '' . 
`` Jorge '' . 
`` Well he don't . 
He don't care at all , and I don't care to get my head busted neither . 
He don't care , and I don't care to have his shit flung on me . 
He don't care about anybody . 
All he cares about is his whisky and that dry crack in his face . 
Get pig-drunk -- that's what he wants . 
He don't care about nothing else at all . 
Nothing . 
Not Pedersen's kid neither . 
That cock . 
Not the kid neither '' . 
`` I'll get the spirits '' , Ma said . 
I'd wound Big Hans up tight . 
I was ready to jump but when Ma said she'd get the whisky it surprised him like it surprised me , and he ran down . 
Ma never went near the old man when he was sleeping it off . 
Not any more . 
Not for years . 
The first thing every morning when she washed her face she could see the scar on her chin where he'd cut her with a boot cleat , and maybe she saw him heaving it again , the dirty sock popping out as it flew . 
It should have been nearly as easy for her to remember that as it was for Big Hans to remember going after the axe while he was still spattered with Pa's yellow sick insides . 
`` No you won't '' , Big Hans said . 
`` Yes , Hans , if they're needed '' , Ma said . 
Hans shook his head but neither of us tried to stop her . 
If we had , then one of us would have had to go instead . 
Hans rubbed the kid with more snow rubbed rubbed . 
`` I'll get more snow '' , I said . 
I took the pail and shovel and went out on the porch . 
I don't know where Ma went . 
I thought she'd gone upstairs and expected to hear she had . 
She had surprised Hans like she had surprised me when she said she'd go , and then she surprised him again when she came back so quick like she must have , because when I came in with the snow she was there with a bottle with three white feathers on its label and Hans was holding it angrily by the throat . 
Oh , he was being queer and careful , pawing about in the drawer and holding the bottle like a snake at the length of his arm . 
He was awful angry because he'd thought Ma was going to do something big , something heroic even , especially for her I know him I know him we felt the same sometimes while Ma wasn't thinking about that at all , not anything like that . 
There was no way of getting even . 
It wasn't like getting cheated at the fair . 
They were always trying so you got to expect it . 
Now Hans had given Ma something of his -- we both had when we thought she was going straight to Pa -- something valuable ; ; but since she didn't know we'd given it to her , there was no easy way of getting it back . 
Hans cut the foil off finally and unscrewed the cap . 
He was put out too because there was only one way of understanding what she'd done . 
Ma had found one of Pa's hiding places . 
She'd found one and she hadn't said a word while Big Hans and I had hunted and hunted as we always did all winter , every winter since the spring that Hans had come and I had looked in the privy and found the first one . 
Pa had a knack for hiding . 
He knew we were looking and he enjoyed it . 
But now Ma . 
She'd found it by luck most likely but she hadn't said anything and we didn't know how long ago it'd been or how many other ones she'd found , saying nothing . 
Pa was sure to find out . 
Sometimes he didn't seem to because he hid them so well he couldn't find them himself or because he looked and didn't find anything and figured he hadn't hid one after all or had drunk it up . 
But he'd find out about this one because we were using it . 
A fool could see what was going on . 
If he found out Ma found it -- that'd be bad . 
He took pride in his hiding . 
It was all the pride he had . 
I guess fooling Hans and me took doing . 
But he didn't figure Ma for much . 
He didn't figure her at all , and if he found out a woman it'd be bad . 
Hans poured some in a tumbler . 
`` You going to put more towels on him '' ? 
`` No '' . 
`` Why not ? 
That's what he needs , something warm to his skin , don't he '' ? 
`` Not where he's froze good . 
Heat's bad for frostbite . 
That's why I only put towels on his chest and belly . 
He's got to thaw slow . 
You ought to know that '' . 
Colors on the towels had run . 
Ma poked her toe in the kid's clothes . 
`` What are we going to do with these '' ? 
Big Hans began pouring whisky in the kid's mouth but his mouth filled without any getting down his throat and in a second it was dripping from his chin . 
`` Here , help me prop him up . 
I got hold his mouth open '' . 
I didn't want to touch him and I hoped Ma would do it but she kept looking at the kid's clothes piled on the floor and the pool of water by them and didn't make any move to . 
`` Come on , Jorge '' . 
`` All right '' . 
`` Lift , don't shove lift '' . 
`` O.K. , I'm lifting '' . 
I took him by the shoulders . 
His head flopped back . 
His mouth fell open . 
The skin on his neck was tight . 
He was cold all right . 
`` Hold his head up . 
He'll choke '' . 
`` His mouth is open '' . 
`` His throat's shut . 
He'll choke '' . 
`` He'll choke anyway '' . 
`` Hold his head up '' . 
`` I can't '' . 
`` Don't hold him like that . 
Put your arms around him '' . 
`` Well Jesus '' . 
He was cold all right . 
I put my arm carefully around him . 
Hans had his fingers in the kid's mouth . 
`` Now he'll choke for sure '' . 
`` Shut up . 
Just hold him like I told you '' . 
He was cold all right , and wet . 
I had my arm behind his back . 
He was in his mid-fifties at this time , long past the establishment of his name and the wish to be lionized yet once again , and it was almost a decade since he had sworn off lecturing . 
There was never a doubt any more how his structures would be received ; ; it was always the same unqualified success now . 
He could no longer build anything , whether a private residence in his Pennsylvania county or a church in Brazil , without it being obvious that he had done it , and while here and there he was taken to task for again developing the same airy technique , they were such fanciful and sometimes even playful buildings that the public felt assured by its sense of recognition after a time , a quality of authentic uniqueness about them , which , once established by an artist as his private vision , is no longer disputable as to its other values . 
Stowey Rummel was internationally famous , a crafter of a genuine Americana in foreign eyes , an original designer whose inventive childishness with steel and concrete was made even more believably sincere by his personality . 
He had lived for almost thirty years in this same stone farmhouse with the same wife , a remarkably childish thing in itself ; ; he rose at half-past six every morning , made himself some French coffee , had his corn flakes and more coffee , smoked four cigarettes while reading last Sunday's Herald Tribune and yesterday's Pittsburgh Gazette , then put on his high-topped farmer's shoes and walked under a vine bower to his workshop . 
This was an enormously long building whose walls were made of rocks , some of them brought home from every continent during his six years as an oil geologist . 
The debris of his other careers was piled everywhere ; ; a pile of wire cages for mice from his time as a geneticist and a microscope lying on its side on the window sill , vertical steel columns wired for support to the open ceiling beams with spidery steel cantilevers jutting out into the air , masonry constructions on the floor from the time he was inventing his disastrous fireplace whose smoke would pass through a whole house , visible all the way up through wire gratings on each floor . 
His files , desk , drafting board and a high stool formed the only clean island in the chaos . 
Everywhere else his ideas lay or hung in visible form : his models , drawings , ten-foot canvases in monochromes from his painting days , and underfoot a windfall of broken-backed books that looked as though their insides had been ransacked by a maniac . 
Bicycle gear-sets he had once used as the basis of the design for the Camden Cycly Company plant hung on a rope in one corner , and over his desk , next to several old and dusty hats , was a clean pair of roller skates which he occasionally used up and down in front of his house . 
He worked standing , with his left hand in his pocket as though he were merely stopping for a moment , sketching with the surprised stare of one who was watching another person's hand . 
Sometimes he would grunt softly to some invisible onlooker beside him , sometimes he would look stern and moralistic as his pencil did what he disapproved . 
It all seemed -- if one could have peeked in at him through one of his windows -- as though this broken-nosed man with the muscular arms and wrestler's neck was merely the caretaker trying his hand at the boss's work . 
This air of disengagement carried over to his apparent attitude toward his things , and people often mistook it for boredom in him or a surrender to repetitious routine . 
But he was not bored at all ; ; he had found his style quite early in his career and he thought it quite wonderful that the world admired it , and he could not imagine why he should alter it . 
There are , after all , fortunate souls who hear everything , but only know how to listen to what is good for them , and Stowey was , as things go , a fortunate man . 
He left his home the day after New Year's wearing a mackinaw and sheepskin mittens and without a hat . 
He would wear this same costume in Florida , despite his wife Cleota's reminders over the past five days that he must take some cool clothes with him . 
But he was too busy to hear what she was saying . 
So they parted when she was in an impatient humor . 
When he was bent over behind the wheel of the station wagon , feeling in his trouser cuffs for the ignition key which he had dropped a moment before , she came out of the house with an enormous Rumanian shawl over her head , which she had bought in that country during one of their trips abroad , and handed him a clean handkerchief through the window . 
Finding the key under his shoe , he started the engine , and while it warmed up he turned to her standing there in the dripping fog , and said , `` Defrost the refrigerator '' . 
He saw the surprise in her face , and laughed as though it were the funniest expression he had ever seen . 
He kept on laughing until she started laughing with him . 
He had a deep voice which was full of good food she had cooked , and good humor ; ; an explosive laugh which always carried everything before it . 
He would settle himself into his seat to laugh . 
Whenever he laughed it was all he was doing . 
And she was made to fall in love with him again there in the rutted dirt driveway standing in the cold fog , mad as she was at his going away when he really didn't have to , mad at their both having got older in a life that seemed to have taken no more than a week to go by . 
She was forty-nine at this time , a lanky woman of breeding with an austere , narrow face which had the distinction of a steeple or some architecture that had been designed long ago for a stubborn sort of prayer . 
Her eyebrows were definite and heavy and formed two lines moving upward toward a high forehead and a great head of brown hair that fell to her shoulders . 
There was an air of blindness in her gray eyes , the startled-horse look that ultimately comes to some women who are born at the end of an ancestral line long since divorced from money-making and which , besides , has kept its estate intact . 
She was personally sloppy , and when she had colds would blow her nose in the same handkerchief all day and keep it , soaking wet , dangling from her waist , and when she gardened she would eat dinner with dirt on her calves . 
But just when she seemed to have sunk into some depravity of peasanthood she would disappear and come down bathed , brushed , and taking breaths of air , and even with her broken nails her hands would come to rest on a table or a leaf with a thoughtless delicacy , a grace of history , so to speak , and for an instant one saw how ferociously proud she was and adamant on certain questions of personal value . 
She even spoke differently when she was clean , and she was clean now for his departure and her voice clear and rather sharp . 
`` Now drive carefully , for God's sake '' ! 
She called , trying to attain a half humorous resentment at his departure . 
But he did not notice , and was already backing the car down to the road , saying `` Toot-toot '' ! 
To the stump of a tree as he passed it , the same stump which had impaled the car of many a guest in the past thirty years and which he refused to have removed . 
She stood clutching her shawl around her shoulders until he had swung the car onto the road . 
Then , when he had it pointed down the hill , he stopped to gaze at her through the window . 
She had begun to turn back toward the house , but his look caught her and she stood still , waiting there for what his expression indicated would be a serious word of farewell . 
He looked at her out of himself , she thought , as he did only for an instant at a time , the look which always surprised her even now when his uncombable hair was yellowing a little and his breath came hard through his nicotine-choked lungs , the look of the gaunt youth she had suddenly found herself staring at in the Tate Gallery on a Thursday once . 
Now she kept herself protectively ready to laugh again and sure enough he pointed at her with his index finger and said `` Toot '' ! 
Once more and roared off into the fog , his foot evidently surprising him with the suddenness with which it pressed the accelerator , just as his hand did when he worked . 
She walked back to the house and entered , feeling herself returning , sensing some kind of opportunity in the empty building . 
There is a death in all partings , she knew , and promptly put it out of her mind . 
She enjoyed great parties when she would sit up talking and dancing and drinking all night , but it always seemed to her that being alone , especially alone in her house , was the realest part of life . 
Now she could let out the three parakeets without fear they would be stepped on or that Stowey would let them out one of the doors ; ; she could dust the plants , then break off suddenly and pick up an old novel and read from the middle on ; ; improvise cha-chas on the harp ; ; and finally , the best part of all , simply sit at the plank table in the kitchen with a bottle of wine and the newspapers , reading the ads as well as the news , registering nothing on her mind but letting her soul suspend itself above all wishing and desire . 
She did this now , comfortably aware of the mist running down the windows , of the silence outside , of the dark afternoon it was getting to be . 
She fell asleep leaning on her hand , hearing the house creaking as though it were a living a private life of its own these two hundred years , hearing the birds rustling in their cages and the occasional whirring of wings as one of them landed on the table and walked across the newspaper to perch in the crook of her arm . 
Every few minutes she would awaken for a moment to review things : Stowey , yes , was on his way south , and the two boys were away in school , and nothing was burning on the stove , and Lucretia was coming for dinner and bringing three guests of hers . 
Then she fell asleep again as soddenly as a person with fever , and when she awoke it was dark outside and the clarity was back in her eyes . 
She stood up , smoothing her hair down , straightening her clothes , feeling a thankfulness for the enveloping darkness outside , and , above everything else , for the absence of the need to answer , to respond , to be aware even of Stowey coming in or going out , and yet , now that she was beginning to cook , she glimpsed a future without him , a future alone like this , and the pain made her head writhe , and in a moment she found it hard to wait for Lucretia to come with her guests . 
She went into the living room and turned on three lamps , then back into the kitchen where she turned on the ceiling light and the switch that lit the floods on the barn , illuminating the driveway . 
She knew she was feeling afraid and inwardly laughed at herself . 
They were both so young , after all , so unready for any final parting . 
How could it have been thirty years already , she wondered ? 
But yes , nineteen plus thirty was forty-nine , and she was forty-nine and she had been married at nineteen . 
She stood still over the leg of lamb , rubbing herbs into it , quite suddenly conscious of a nausea in her stomach and a feeling of wrath , a sensation of violence that started her shivering . 
But they all said , `` No , your time will come . 
Enjoy being a bride while you can '' . 
There was no room for company in the tiny Weaning House ( where the Albright boys always took their brides , till they could get a house and a farm of their own ) . 
So when the Big House filled up and ran over , the sisters-in-law found beds for everyone in their own homes . 
And there was still not anything that Linda Kay could do . 
So Linda Kay gave up asking , and accepted her reprieve . 
Without saying so , she was really grateful ; ; for to attend the dying was something she had never experienced , and certainly had not imagined when she thought of the duties she would have as Bobby Joe's wife . 
She had made curtains for all the windows of her little house , and she had kept it spotless and neat , shabby as it was , and cooked good meals for Bobby Joe . 
She had done all the things she had promised herself she would do , but she had not thought of this . 
People died , she would have said , in hospitals , or in cars on the highway at night . 
Bobby Joe was gone all day now , not coming in for dinner and sometimes not for supper . 
When they first married he had been working in the fields all day , and she would get in the car and drive to wherever he was working , to take him a fresh hot meal . 
Now there was no work in the fields , nor would there be till it rained , and she did not know where he went . 
Not that she complained , or had any cause to . 
Four or five of the cousins from East Texas were about his age , so naturally they ran around together . 
There was no reason for her to ask what they did . 
Thus a new pattern of days began to develop , for Granny Albright did not die . 
She lay still on the bed , her head hardly denting the pillow ; ; sometimes she opened her eyes and looked around , and sometimes she took a little milk or soup . 
They stopped expecting her to die the next minute , but only in the next day or two . 
Those who had driven hundreds of miles for the burial would not go home , for she might die any time ; ; but they might as well unpack their suitcases , for she might linger on . 
So the pattern was established . 
When Linda Kay had put up her breakfast dishes and mopped her linoleum rugs , she would go to the Big House . 
There was not anything she could do there , but that was where everyone was , or would be . 
Bobby Joe and the boys would come by , say `` How's Granny '' ? 
And sit on the porch a while . 
The older men would be there at noon , and maybe rest for a time before they took their guns off to the creek or drove down the road towards town . 
The women and children stayed at the Albrights' . 
The women , keeping their voices low as they worked around the house or sat in the living room , sounded like chickens shut up in a coop for the night . 
The children had to play away from the house ( in the barn loft or the pasture behind the barn ) , to maintain a proper quietness . 
Off and on , all day , someone would be wiping at the powdery gray dust that settled over everything . 
The evaporative cooler had been moved to Granny's room , and her door was kept shut ; ; so that the rest of the house stayed open , though there was a question as to whether it was hotter or cooler that way . 
The dust clogged their throats , and the heat parched them , so that the women were always making ice water . 
They had cleaned up an old ice box and begun to buy fifty-pound blocks of ice in town , as the electric refrigerator came nowhere near providing enough ice for the crowds who ate and drank there . 
One afternoon , as the women sat clucking softly , a new carload of people pulled up at the gate . 
It was a Cadillac , black grayed with the dust of the road , its windows closed tight so you knew that the people who climbed out of it would be cool and unwrinkled . 
They were an old fat couple ( as Linda Kay described them to herself ) , a thick middle-aged man , and a girl about ten or twelve . 
There was much embracing , much exclaiming . 
`` Cousin Ada ! 
Cousin John '' ! 
`` Cousin Lura '' ! 
`` Cousin Howard '' ! 
`` And how is she '' ? 
`` About the same , John , about the same '' . 
All the women got up and offered their chairs , and when they were all seated again , the guests made their inquiries and their explanations . 
`` We were on our vacation in Canada '' , Howard explained , in a muffled voice that must have been used to booming , `` and the news didn't catch up with us till we were nearly home . 
We came on as soon as we could '' . 
There was the suggestion of ice water , and -- in spite of the protest `` We're not really thirsty '' -- Linda Kay , to escape the stuffy air and the smothering soft voices , hurried to the kitchen . 
She filled a big pitcher and set it , with glasses , on a tray . 
Carrying it to the living room , she imagined the picture she made : tall and roundly slim , a bit sophisticated in her yellow sheath , with a graceful swingy walk that she had learned as a twirler with the school band . 
Almost immediately she was ashamed of herself for feeling vain , at such a time , in such a place , and she tossed back her long yellow hair , smiling shyly as she entered the room . 
Howard ( the thick middle-aged man ) was looking at her . 
She felt the look and looked back because she could not help it , seeing that he was neither as old nor as thick as she had at first believed . 
`` And who is this '' ? 
He asked , when she passed him a glass . 
`` Oh that's Linda Kay '' , Mama Albright said fondly . 
`` She married our baby boy , Bobby Joe , this summer '' . 
`` Let's see '' , Cousin Ada said . 
`` He's a right smart younger than the rest '' ? 
`` Oh yes '' , Mama laughed . 
`` He's ten years younger than Ernest . 
We didn't expect him to come along ; ; thought for the longest he was a tumor '' . 
This joke was not funny to Linda Kay , and she blushed , as she always did ; ; then , hearing the muffled boom of Howard's laughter , blushed redder . 
`` Who is Howard , anyway '' ? 
She asked Bobby Joe that night . 
`` He makes me uncomfortable '' . 
`` Oh he's a second cousin or something . 
He got in the oil business out at Odessa and lucked into some money '' . 
`` How old is he '' ? 
`` Gosh , I don't know . 
Thirty-five , I guess . 
He's been married and got this half-grown kid . 
If he bothers you , don't pay him any mind . 
He's just a big windbag '' . 
Bobby Joe was thinking about something else . 
`` Say , did you know they're fixing to have a two-day antelope season on the Double J '' ? 
He was talking about antelope again when they woke up . 
`` Listen , I never had a chance to kill an antelope . 
There never was a season before , but now they want to thin 'em out on account of the drouth '' . 
`` Did he ever visit here when he was a kid '' ? 
Linda Kay asked . 
`` Who '' ? 
`` Howard '' . 
`` Hell , I don't know . 
When he was a kid I wasn't around '' . 
Bobby Joe took a gun from behind the door , and with a quick `` Bye now '' was gone for the day . 
Almost immediately Howard and his daughter Debora drove up in the Cadillac . 
`` We're going after ice '' , Howard said , `` and thought maybe you'd go along and keep us company '' . 
There was really no reason to refuse , and Linda Kay had never ridden in a Cadillac . 
Driving along the caliche-topped road to town , Howard talked . 
Finally he said , `` Tell me about yourself '' , and Linda Kay told him , because she thought herself that she had had an interesting life . 
She was such a well-rounded teenager , having been a twirler , Future Farmers sweetheart , and secretary of Future Homemakers . 
In her sophomore year she had started going steady with Bobby Joe , who was a football player , Future Homemakers sweetheart , and president of Future Farmers . 
It was easy to see that they were made for each other , and they knew what they wanted . 
Bobby Joe would be a senior this year , and he planned to graduate . 
But there was no need for Linda Kay to go on , since all she wanted in life was to make a home for Bobby Joe and ( blushing ) raise his children . 
Howard sighed . 
`` You lucky kids '' , he said . 
`` I'd give anything if I could have found a girl like you '' . 
Then he told Linda Kay about himself . 
Of course he couldn't say much , really , because of Debora , but Linda Kay could imagine what kind of woman his wife had been and what a raw deal he had got . 
It made her feel different about Howard . 
She was going to tell Bobby Joe about how mistaken she had been , but he brought one of the cousins home for supper , and all they did was talk about antelope . 
Bobby Joe was trying to get Linda Kay to say she would cook one if he brought it home . 
`` Cook a whole antelope '' ? 
She exclaimed . 
`` Why , I couldn't even cook a piece of antelope steak ; ; I never even saw any '' . 
`` Oh , you could . 
I want to roast the whole thing , and have it for the boys '' . 
Linda Kay told him he couldn't do anything like that with his Grandma dying , and he said well they had to eat , didn't they , they weren't all dying . 
Linda Kay felt like going off to the bedroom to cry ; ; but they were going up to the Big House after supper , and she had to put on a clean dress and fix her hair a little . 
Every night they all went to Mama and Papa Albright's , and sat on the open front porch , where they could get the breeze . 
It was full-of-the-moon ( or a little past ) , and nearly light as day . 
They all sat around and drank ice water , and the men smoked , and everybody had a good time . 
Once in a while they said what a shame it was , with Granny dying , but they all agreed she wouldn't have wanted it any other way . 
That night the older men got to talking about going possum-hunting on a moonlight night . 
Bobby Joe and two or three of the other boys declared they had never been possum-hunting , and Uncle Bill Farnworth ( from Mama Albright's side of the family ) said he would just get up from there and take them , right then . 
After they had left , some of the people moved around , to find more comfortable places to sit . 
There were not many chairs , so that some preferred to sit on the edge of the porch , resting their feet on the ground , and others liked to sit where they could lean back against the wall . 
Howard , who had been sitting against the wall , said he needed more fresh air , and took the spot on the edge of the porch where Bobby Joe had been sitting . 
`` You'll be a darn sight more comfortable there , Howard '' , Ernest said , laughing , and they all laughed . 
Linda Kay felt that she was not exactly more comfortable . 
Bobby Joe had been sitting close to her , touching her actually , and holding her hand from time to time , but it seemed at once that Howard sat much closer . 
Perhaps it was just that he had so much more flesh , so that more of it seemed to come in contact with hers ; ; but she had never been so aware of anyone's flesh before . 
Still she was not sorry he sat by her , but in fact was flattered . 
He had become the center of the company , such stories he had to tell . 
He had sold oil stock to Bob Hope and Bing Crosby in person ; ; he had helped fight an oil-well fire that raged six days and nights . 
`` But tell me , doctor , where do you plan to conduct the hatching '' ? 
Alex asked . 
`` That will have to be in the hotel '' , the doctor retorted , confirming Alex's anticipations . 
`` What I want you to do is to go to the market with me early tomorrow morning and help smuggle the hen back into the hotel '' . 
The doctor paid the bill and they repaired to the hotel , room number nine , to initiate Alex further into these undertakings . 
The doctor opened the smallest of his cases , an unimposing straw bag , and exposed the contents for Alex's inspection . 
Inside , carefully packed in straw , were six eggs , but the eye of a poultry psychologist was required to detect what scientifically valuable specimentalia lay inside ; ; to Alex they were merely six not unusual hens' eggs . 
There was little enough time to contemplate them , however ; ; in an instant the doctor was stalking across the room with an antique ledger in his hands , thoroughly eared and big as a table top . 
He placed it on Alex's lap . 
`` This is my hen ledger '' , he informed him in an absorbed way . 
`` It's been going since 1908 when I was a junior in college . 
That first entry there is the Vermont Flumenophobe , the earliest and one of the most successful of my eighty-three varieties -- great big scapulars and hardly any primaries at all . 
Couldn't take them near a river , though , or they'd squawk like a turkey cock the day before Thanksgiving '' . 
The ledger was full of most precise information : date of laying , length of incubation period , number of chick reaching the first week , second week , fifth week , weight of hen , size of rooster's wattles and so on , all scrawled out in a hand that looked more Chinese than English , the most jagged and sprawling Alex had ever seen . 
Below these particulars was a series of alpha-beta-gammas connected by arrows and crosses which denoted the lineage of the breed . 
Alex's instruction was rapid , for the doctor had to go off to the Rue Ecole De Medecine to hear more speeches with only time for one sip of wine to sustain him through them all . 
But after the doctor's return that night Alex could see , from the high window in his own room , the now familiar figure crouched on a truly impressive heap of towels , apparently giving its egg-hatching powers one final chance before it was replaced in its office by a sure-enough hen . 
A knocking at Alex's door roused him at six o'clock the following morning . 
It was the doctor , dressed and ready for the expedition to the market , and Alex was obliged to prepare himself in haste . 
The doctor stood about , waiting for Alex to dress , with a show of impatience , and soon they were moving , as quietly as could be , through the still-dark hallways , past the bedroom of the patronne , and so into the street . 
The market was not far and , once there , the doctor's sense of immediacy left him and he fell into a state of harmony with the birds around him . 
He stroked the hens and they responded with delighted clucks , he gobbled with the turkeys and they at once were all attention , he quacked with the ducks , and cackled with a pair of exceedingly flattered geese . 
The dawn progressed and it seemed that the doctor would never be done with his ministrations when quite abruptly something broke his revery . 
It was a fine broody hen , white , with a maternal eye and a striking abundance of feathers in the under region of the abdomen . 
The doctor , with the air of a man whose professional interests have found scope , drew Alex's attention to those excellences which might otherwise have escaped him : the fine color in comb and wattles , the length and quality of neck and saddle hackles , the firm , wide spread of the toes , and a rare justness in the formation of the ear lappets . 
All search was ended ; ; he had found his fowl . 
The purchase was effected and they made their way towards the hotel again , the hen , with whom some sort of communication had been set up , nestling in the doctor's arms . 
The clocks struck seven-thirty as they approached the hotel entrance ; ; and hopes that the chambermaid and patronne would still be abed began to rise in Alex's well exercised breast . 
The doctor was wearing a long New England greatcoat , hardly necessary in the June weather but a garment which proved well adapted to the sequestration of hens . 
Alex entered first and was followed by the doctor who , for all his care , manifested a perceptible bulge on his left side where the hen was cradled . 
They advanced in a line across the entrance hall to the stairway and up , with gingerly steps , towards the first landing . 
It was then that they heard the tread of one descending and , in some perturbation glancing up , saw the patronne coming towards them as they gained the landing . 
`` Bonjour , messieurs , vous etes matinals '' , she greeted them pleasantly . 
Alex explained that they had been out for a stroll before breakfast while the doctor edged around behind him , attempting to hide the protuberance at his left side behind Alex's arm and back . 
`` Vous voulez vos petits dejeuners tout de suite alors '' ? 
Their hostess enquired . 
Alex told her that there was no hurry for their breakfasts , trying at the same time to effect a speedy separation of the persons before and behind him . 
The doctor , he noticed , was attempting a transverse movement towards the stairs , but before the movement could be completed a distinct and audible cluck ruffled the air in the hollow of the stair-well . 
Eyes swerved in the patronne's head , Alex coughed loudly , and the doctor , with a sforzando of chicken noises floating behind him , took to the stairs in long-shanked leaps . 
`` Comment '' ? 
Ejaculated the surprised woman , looking at Alex for an explanation but he , parting from her without ceremony , only offered a few words about the doctor's provincial American speech and a state of nerves brought on by the demands of his work . 
With that he hurried up the stairs , followed by her suspicious gaze . 
When Alex entered his room , the doctor was already preparing a nest in the straw case , six eggs ready for the hen's attentions . 
There was no reference to the incident on the stairs , his powers being absorbed by this more immediate business . 
The hen appeared to have no doubts as to her duties and was quick to settle down to the performance of them . 
One part of her audience was totally engaged , the connoisseur witnessing a peculiarly fine performance of some ancient classic , the other part , the guest of the connoisseur , attentive as one who must take an intelligent interest in that which he does not fully understand . 
The spectacle progressed towards a denouement which was obviously still remote ; ; the audience attended . 
Time elapsed but the doctor was obviously unconscious of its passage until an unwelcome knock on the door interrupted the processes of nature . 
Startled , he jumped up to pull hen and case out of view , and Alex went to the door . 
He opened it a crack and in doing so made as much shuffling , coughing , and scraping noise as possible in order to drown emanations from the hen who had begun to protest . 
It was Giselle , the fille de chambre , come to clean the room , and while she stood before him with ears pricked up and regard all curiosity , explaining her errand , Alex could see from the corner of his eye the doctor doing all he could to calm the displeased bird . 
Giselle was reluctant but Alex succeeded in persuading her to come back in five minutes and the door was shut again . 
`` Who was that , young feller '' ? 
The doctor instantly asked . 
`` That was the fille de chambre , the one you thought couldn't get the eggs out . 
She looked mighty interested , though . 
Anyhow she's coming back in five minutes to do the room '' . 
The doctor's mind was working at a great speed ; ; he rose to put his greatcoat on and addressed Alex in a muted voice . 
`` Have you got our keys handy '' ? 
`` Right in my pocket '' . 
`` All right . 
Now you go outside and beckon me when it's safe '' . 
The hall was empty and Alex beckoned ; ; they climbed the stairs which creaked , very loudly to their sensitive ears , and reached the next floor . 
A guest was locking his room ; ; they passed behind him and got to Alex's room unnoticed . 
The doctor sat down rather wearily , caressing the hen and remarking that the city was not the place for a poultry-loving man , but no sooner was the remark out than a knock at this door obliged him to cover the hen with his greatcoat once more . 
At the door Alex managed to persuade the increasingly astonished fille de chambre to return in ten minutes . 
It was evident that a second transfer had to be effected , and that it had to take place between the time the fille finished the doctor's room and the time she began Alex's . 
They waited three minutes and then crept out on tip-toe ; ; the halls were empty and they passed down the stairs to number nine and listened at the door . 
A bustle of sheets being smoothed and pillows being arranged indicated the fille de chambre's presence inside ; ; they listened and suddenly a step towards the door announced another important fact . 
The doctor shot down to the lavatory and turned the doorknob , but to no effect : the lavatory was occupied . 
Although a look of alarm passed over his face , he did not arrest his movements but disappeared into the shower room just as the chambermaid emerged from number nine . 
Alex suppressed those expressions of relief which offered to prevail in his face and escape from his throat ; ; unwarranted they were in any case for , as he stood facing the fille de chambre , his ears were assailed by new sounds from the interior of the shower room . 
The events of the last quarter of an hour , mysterious to any bird accustomed only to the predictable life of coop and barnyard , had overcome the doctor's hen and she gave out a series of cackly wails , perhaps mourning her nest , but briefly enjoyed . 
The doctor's wits had not left him , however , for all his sixty-eight years , and the wails were almost immediately lost in the sound of water rushing out from the showerhead . 
Alex nodded to the maid as though nothing unusual were taking place and entered the doctor's room . 
Shortly , the doctor himself entered , his hair somewhat wet from the shower , but evidently satisfied with the outcome of their adventures . 
Without comment he opened the closet and from its shelves constructed a highboard around the egg case which he had placed on the floor inside . 
Next , the hen was nested and all seemed well . 
The two men sat for some time , savoring the pleasure of escape from peril and the relief such escape brings , before they got up and left the hotel , the doctor to go to the conference house and Alex to go to the main post office . 
Alex returned to the hotel , rather weary and with no new prospects of a role , in the late afternoon , but found the doctor in an ebullient mood . 
At the time Alex arrived he was engaged in some sort of intimate communication with the hen , who had settled herself on the nest most peacefully after the occurrences of the morning . 
`` Chickens have short memories '' , the doctor remarked , `` that's why they are better company than most people I know '' , and he went on to break some important news to Alex . 
`` Well '' , he began , `` It seems like some people in Paris want to hear more from me than those fellers over at the conference house do . 
They've got a big vulture from Tanganika at the zoo here , with a wife for him , too , very rare birds , both of them , the only Vulturidae of their species outside Africa . 
Seems like she's willing , but the male just flops around all day like the bashful boy who took Jeannie May behind the barn and then didn't know what to do , and the people at the zoo haven't got any vulture chicks to show for their trouble . 
Going downstairs with the tray , Winston wished he could have given in to Miss Ada , but he knew better than to do what she said when she had that little-girl look . 
There were times it wasn't right to make a person happy , like the times she came in the kitchen and asked know we don't keep peanut `` butter for a peanut butter sandwich . 
You in this house '' , he always told her . 
`` Why , Winston '' , she'd cry , `` I just now saw you eating it out of the jar '' ! 
But he knew how important it was for her to keep her figure . 
In the kitchen , Leona , his little young wife , was reading the morning paper . 
Her legs hung down long and thin as she sat on the high stool . 
`` Here '' , Winston said gently , `` what's these dishes doing not washed '' ? 
The enormous plates which had held Mr. Jack's four fried eggs and five strips of bacon were still stacked in the sink . 
`` Leave me alone '' , Leona said . 
`` Can't you see I'm busy '' ? 
She looked at him impudently over the corner of the paper . 
`` This is moving day '' , Winston reminded her , `` and I bet you left things every which way upstairs , your clothes all over the floor and the bed not made . 
Leona '' ! 
His eye had fastened on her leg ; ; bending , he touched her knee . 
`` If I catch you one more time down here without stockings '' -- She twitched her leg away . 
`` Fuss , fuss , old man '' . 
She had an alley cat's manners . 
Winston stacked Miss Ada's thin pink dishes in the sink . 
Then he spread out the last list on the counter . 
`` To Be Left Behind '' was printed at the top in Miss Ada ; ; fine hand . 
Winston took out a pencil , admired the point , and wrote slowly and heavily , `` Clothes Stand '' . 
Sighing , Leona dropped the paper and stood up . 
`` I guess I better get ready to go '' . 
Winston watched her fumbling to untie her apron . 
`` Here '' . 
Carefully , he undid the bow . 
`` How come your bows is always cockeyed '' ? 
She turned and put her arms around his neck . 
`` I don't want to leave here , Winston '' . 
`` Now listen to that '' . 
He drew back , embarrassed and pleased . 
`` I thought you was sick to death of this big house . 
Said you wore yourself out , cleaning all these empty rooms '' . 
`` At least there is room here '' , she said . 
`` What room is there going to be in an apartment for any child '' ? 
`` I told you what Miss Ada's doctor said '' . 
`` I don't mean Miss Ada ! 
What you think I care about that ? 
I mean our children '' . 
She sounded as though they already existed . 
In spite of the hundred things he had on his mind , Winston went and put his arm around her waist . 
`` We've got plenty of time to think about that . 
All the time in the world . 
We've only been married four years , January '' . 
`` Four years '' ! 
She wailed . 
`` That's a long time , waiting '' . 
`` How many times have I told you '' -- he began , and was almost glad when she cut him off -- `` Too many times '' ! 
-- and flounced to the sink , where she began noisily to wash her hands . 
Too many times was the truth of it , Winston thought . 
He hardly believed his reason himself any more . 
Although it had seemed a good reason , to begin with : no couple could afford to have children . 
`` How you going to work with a child hanging on you '' ? 
He asked Leona . 
`` You want to keep this job , don't you '' ? 
He doubted whether she heard him , over the running water . 
He sat for a while with his hands on his knees , watching the bend of her back as she gathered up her things -- a comb , a bottle of aspirin -- to take upstairs and pack . 
She made him sad some days , and he was never sure why ; ; it was something to do with her back , the thinness of it , and the quick , jerky way she bent . 
She was too young , that was all ; ; too young and thin and straight . 
`` Winston '' ! 
It was Mr. Jack , bellowing out in the hall . 
Winston hurried through the swinging door . 
`` I've been bursting my lungs for you '' , Mr. Jack complained . 
He was standing in front of the mirror , tightening his tie . 
He had on his gray tweed overcoat and his city hat , and his brief case lay on the bench . 
`` I don't know what you think you've been doing about my clothes '' , he said . 
`` This coat looks like a rag heap '' . 
There were a few blades of lint on the shoulder . 
Winston took the clothesbrush out of the closet and went to work . 
He gave Mr. Jack a real going-over ; ; he brushed his shoulders and his back and his collar with long , firm strokes . 
`` Hey '' ! 
Mr. Jack cried when the brush tipped his hat down over his eyes . 
Winston apologized and quickly set the hat right . 
Then he stood back to look at Mr. Jack , who was pulling on his pigskin gloves . 
Winston enjoyed seeing him start out ; ; he wore his clothes with style . 
When he was going to town , nothing was good enough -- he had cursed at Winston once for leaving a fleck of polish on his shoelace . 
At home , he wouldn't even wash his hands for supper , and he wandered around the yard in a pair of sweaty old corduroys . 
The velvet smoking jackets , pearl-gray , wine , and blue , which Miss Ada had bought him hung brushed and unworn in the closet . 
`` Good-by , Winston '' , Mr. Jack said , giving a final set to his hat . 
`` Look out for those movers '' ! 
Winston watched him hurry down the drive to his car ; ; a handsome , fine-looking man it made him proud to see . 
After Mr. Jack drove away , Winston went on looking out the window . 
He noticed a speck of dirt on the sill and swiped at it with his finger . 
Then he looked at his finger , at the wrinkled , heavy knuckle and the thick nail he used like a knife to pry up , slit , and open . 
For the first time , he be sad about the move . 
That house was ten years off his life let himself . 
Each brass handle and hinge shone for his reward , and he knew how to get at the dust in the china flowers and how to take down the long glass drops which hung from the chandelier . 
He knew the house like a blind man , through his fingers , and he did not like to think of all the time and rags and polishes he had spent on keeping it up . 
Ten years ago , he had come to the house to be interviewed . 
The tulips and the big pink peonies had been blooming along the drive , and he had walked up from the bus almost singing . 
Miss Ada had been out back , in a straw hat , planting flowers . 
She had talked to him right there , with the hot sun in his face , which made him sweat and feel ashamed . 
Winston had been surprised at her for that . 
Still , he had liked the way she had looked , in a fresh , neat cotton dress -- citron yellow , if he remembered . 
She had had a dignity about her , even barefoot and almost too tan . 
Since then , the flowers she had planted had spread all over the hill . 
Already the jonquils were blooming in a flock by the front gate , and the periwinkles were coming on , blue by the porch steps . 
In a week the hyacinths would spike out . 
And the dogwood in early May , for Miss Ada's alfresco party ; ; and after that the Japanese cherries . 
Now the yard looked wet and bald , the trees bare under their buds , but in a while Miss Ada's flowers would bloom like a marching parade . 
She had dug a hole for each bulb , each tree wore a tag with her writing on it ; ; where would she go for her gardening now ? 
Somehow Winston didn't think she'd take to window boxes . 
Sighing , he hurried to the living room . 
He had a thousand things to see to . 
Still , he couldn't help thinking , we're all getting old , getting small ; ; the snail is pulling in her horns . 
In the living room , Miss Ada was standing by the window with a sheaf of lists in her hand . 
She was looking out at the garden . 
`` Winston '' , she said , `` get the basket for the breakables '' . 
Winston had the big straw basket ready in the hall . 
He brought it in and put it down beside her . 
Miss Ada was looking fine ; ; she had on her Easter suit , blue , with lavender binding . 
Halfway across the house , he could have smelled her morning perfume . 
It hung in all her day clothes , sweet and strong ; ; sometimes when he was pressing , Winston raised her dresses to his face . 
Frowning , Miss Ada studied the list . 
`` Well , let's see . 
The china lemon tree . 
The alabaster cockatoo '' . 
Winston followed her around the room , collecting the small frail objects ( Christmas , birthday , and anniversary ) and wrapping them in tissue paper . 
Neither of them trusted the movers . 
When they came to Mr. Jack's photograph , twenty by twelve inches in a curly silver frame , Miss Ada said , `` By rights I ought to leave that , seeing he won't take my clotheshorse '' . 
She smiled at Winston , and he saw the hateful hard glitter in her eyes . 
He picked up the photograph and began to wrap it . 
`` At least you could leave it for the movers '' , Miss Ada said . 
`` What possessed you to tell me a clotheshorse would be a good idea '' ? 
Winston folded the tissue paper carefully . 
`` He's used it every day ; ; every morning , I lay out his clothes on it '' . 
`` Well , that's over now . 
And it was his main present ! 
Leave that fool picture out '' , she added sharply . 
Winston laid it in the basket . 
`` Mr. Jack sets store by that '' . 
`` Really , Winston . 
It was meant to be my present '' . 
But she went on down the list . 
Winston was relieved ; ; those presents had been on his mind . 
He had only agreed with Miss Ada about getting the valet , but he had actually suggested the photograph to Mr. Jack . 
`` You know what she likes , Winston '' , he had said wearily , one evening in November when Winston was pulling off his overshoes . 
`` Tell me what to get her for Christmas '' . 
`` She's been talking about a picture '' , Winston had told him . 
`` Picture ! 
You mean picture of me '' ? 
But Winston had persuaded him . 
On Christmas night , they had had a disagreement about it . 
Winston had heard because he was setting up the liquor tray in the next room . 
Through the door , he had seen Mr. Jack walking around , waiting for Miss Ada . 
Finally she had come down ; ; Winston had heard her shaking out the skirt of her new pink silk hostess gown . 
`` How do you like it '' ? 
She had asked . 
Mr. Jack had said , `` You look about fifteen years old '' . 
`` Is that a compliment '' ? 
`` I don't know '' . 
He had stood at a little distance , studying her , as though he would walk around next and look at the back of her head . 
`` Lovie , you make me feel naked '' . 
Miss Ada had giggled , and she went sweeping and rustling to the couch and sank down . 
`` You look like that picture I have at the office '' , Mr. Jack had started . 
`` Not a line , not a wrinkle . 
I look like an old man , compared '' , and he had picked up his photograph with the red Christmas bow still on it . 
`` Look , an old man . 
Will you wear pink when you're sixty '' ? 
`` Darling , I love that photograph . 
I'm going to put it on my dresser '' . 
`` I guess it's children make a woman old . 
A man gets old anyhow '' . 
After a minute he went on , `` People must think the curse is on me , seeing you fresh as an apple and me old and gray '' . 
`` I'll give you a medical certificate , framed , if you like '' , Miss Ada had said . 
`` No . 
All I want is a picture -- with a few lines . 
Make the man put them in if he has to '' . 
After that they had sat for five minutes without saying a word . 
Then Miss Ada had stood up , rustling and rustling , and gone upstairs . 
Was it love ? 
I had no doubt that it was . 
During the rest of the summer my scholarly mania for making plaster casts and spatter prints of Catskill flowers and leaves was all but surpassed by the constantly renewed impressions of Jessica that my mind served up to me for contemplation and delight . 
Nothing in all the preceding years had had the power to bring me closer to a knowledge of profound sorrow than the breakup of camp , the packing away of my camp uniforms , the severing of ties with the six or ten people I had grown most to love in the world . 
In final separation from them , in the railroad terminal across the river from New York , I would nearly cry . 
My parents' welcoming arms would seem woeful , inadequate , unwanted . 
But that year was different , for just as the city , in the form of my street clothes , had intruded upon my mountain nights , so an essential part of the summer gave promise of continuing into the fall : Jessica and I , about to be separated not by a mere footbridge or messhall kitchen but by the immense obstacle of residing in cruelly distant boroughs , had agreed to correspond . 
These letters became the center of my existence . 
I lived to see an envelope of hers in the morning mail and to lock myself in my room in the afternoon to reread her letter for the tenth time and finally prepare an answer . 
My memory has catalogued for easy reference and withdrawal the image of her pink , scented stationery and the unsloped , almost printed configurations of her neat , studious handwriting with which she invited me to recall our summer , so many sentences beginning with `` Remember when ; ; '' and others concerning camp friends who resided in her suburban neighborhood , , and news of her commencing again her piano lessons , her private school , a visit to Boston to see her grandparents and an uncle who was a surgeon returned on furlough , wounded , from the war in Europe . 
In my letters I took on a personality that differed from the self I knew in real life . 
Then epistolatory me was a foreign correspondent dispatching exciting cables and communiques , full of dash and wit and glamor , quoting from the books I read , imitating the grand styles of the authors recommended by a teacher in whose special , after-school class I was enrolled . 
The letters took their source from a stream of my imagination in which I was transformed into a young man not unlike my bunkmate Eliot Sands -- he of the porch steps anecdotes -- who smoked cigarettes , performed the tango , wore fifty dollar suits , and sneaked off into the dark with girls to do unimaginable things with them . 
Like Eliot , in my fantasies , I had a proud bearing and , with a skill that was vaguely continental , I would lead Jessica through an evening of dancing and handsome descriptions of my newest exploits , would guide her gently to the night's climax which , in my dreams , was always represented by our almost suffocating one another to death with deep , moist kisses burning with love . 
The night after reading her letter about her surgeon uncle -- it must have been late in September -- I had a vision of myself returned in ragged uniform from The Front , nearly dying , my head bandaged and blooded , and Jessica bending over me , the power of her love bringing me back to life . 
For many nights afterward , the idea of her having been so close to me in that imagined bed would return and fill me with obscure and painful desires , would cause me to lie awake in shame , tossing with irresolution , longing to fall into a deep sleep . 
The weeks went by , and the longer our separation grew , the more unbounded and almost unbearable my fantasies became . 
They caused my love for Jessica to become warmer and at the same time more hopeless , as if my adolescent self knew that only torment would ever bring me the courage to ask to see her again . 
As it turned out , Jessica took matters into her own hands . 
Having received permission to give a camp reunion-Halloween party , she asked that I come and be her date . 
I went and , mum and nervous , all but made a fool of myself . 
Again among those jubilantly reunited bunkmates , I was shy with Jessie and acted as I had during those early Saturday mornings when we all seemed to be playing for effect , to be detached and unconcerned with the girls who were properly our dates but about whom , later , in the privacy of our bunks , we would think in terms of the most elaborate romance . 
I remember standing in a corner , watching Jessica act the hostess , serving soft drinks to her guests . 
She was wearing her dark hair in two , thick braids to attain an `` American Girl '' effect she thought was appropriate to Halloween . 
It made her look sweet and schoolgirlish , I was excited to be with her , but I did not know how to express it . 
Yet a moment did come that night when the adventurous letter writer and fantasist seemed to stride off my flashy pages , out of my mind , and plant himself in reality . 
It was late , we were playing kissing games , and Jessica and I were called on to kiss in front of the others . 
We blushed and were flustered , and it turned out to be the fleetest brush of lips upon cheek . 
The kiss outraged our friends but it was done and meanwhile had released in me all the remote , exciting premonitions of lust , all the mysterious sensations that I had imagined a truly consummated kiss would convey to me . 
It was at that party that , finally overcoming my timidity , inspired by tales only half-understood and overheard among older boys , I asked Jessie to spend New Year's Eve with me . 
Lovingly , she accepted , and so great was my emotion that all I could think of saying was , `` You're amazing , you know '' ? 
Later , we agreed to think of how we wished to spend that night . 
We would write to one another and make a definite plan . 
She was terribly pleased . 
Among my school and neighborhood friends , during the next months , I bragged and swaggered and pompously described my impending date . 
But though I boasted and gave off a dapper front , I was beneath it all frightened . 
It would be the first time I had ever been completely alone with a girl I loved . 
I had no idea of what subjects one discussed when alone with a girl , or how one behaved : Should I hold her hand while walking or only when crossing the street ? 
Should I bring along a corsage or send one to her ? 
Was it preferable to meet her at home or in the city ? 
Should I accompany her to the door of her home , or should I ask to be invited in ? 
In or out , should I kiss her goodnight ? 
All this was unknown to me , and yet I had dared to ask her out for the most important night of the year ! 
When in one letter Jessica informed me that her father did not like the idea of her going out alone on New Year's Eve , I knew for a moment an immense relief ; ; but the letter went on : she had cried , she had implored , she had been miserable at his refusal , and finally he had relented -- and now how happy she was , how expectant ! 
Her optimism gave me heart . 
I forced confidence into myself . 
I made inquiries , I read a book of etiquette . 
In December I wrote her with authority that we would meet on the steps of the Hotel Astor , a rendezvous spot that I had learned was the most sophisticated . 
We would attend a film and , later on , I stated , we might go to the Mayflower Coffee Shop or Child's or Toffenetti's for waffles . 
I set the hour of our meeting for seven . 
At five o'clock that night it was already dark , and behind my closed door I was dressing as carefully as a groom . 
I wore a new double-breasted brown worsted suit with a faint herringbone design and wide lapels like a devil's ears . 
My camp-made leather wallet , bulky with twisted , raised stitches around the edges , I stuffed with money I had been saving . 
Hatless , in an overcoat of rough blue wool , I was given a proud farewell by my mother and father , and I set out into the strangely still streets of Brooklyn . 
I felt superior to the neighborhood friends I was leaving behind , felt older than my years , and was full of compliments for myself as I headed into the subway that was carrying its packs of passengers out of that dull borough and into the unstable , tantalizing excitement of Manhattan . 
Times Square , when I ascended to it with my fellow subway travellers ( all dressed as if for a huge wedding in a family of which we were all distant members ) , was nearly impassable , the sidewalks swarming with celebrants , with bundled up sailors and soldiers already hugging their girls and their rationed bottles of whiskey . 
Heavy-coated , severe-looking policemen sat astride noble horses along the curbside to prevent the revellers from spilling out in front of the crawling traffic . 
The night was cold but the crowd kept one warm . 
The giant electric signs and marquees were lit up for the first time since blackout regulations had been instituted , and the atmosphere was alive with the feeling that victory was just around the corner . 
Cardboard noisemakers , substitutes for the unavailable tin models , were being hawked and bought at makeshift stands every few yards along Broadway , and one's ears were continually serenaded by the horns' rasps and bleats . 
An old gentlemen next to me held a Boy Scout bugle to his lips and blasted away at every fourth step and during the interim shouted out , `` V for Victory '' ! 
His neighbors cheered him on . 
There was a great sense of camaraderie . 
How did one join them ? 
Where were they all walking to ? 
Was I supposed to buy a funny hat and a rattle for Jessica ? 
It was a quarter of seven when the crowd washed me up among the other gallants who had established the Astor steps as the beach-head from which to launch their night of merrymaking . 
I looked over their faces and felt a twinge : they all looked so much more knowing than I . 
I looked away . 
I looked for Jessica to materialize out of the clogging , curdling crowd and , as the time passed and I waited , a fiend came to life beside me and whispered in my ear : How was I planning to greet Jessica ? 
Where exactly would we go after the movie ? 
Suppose the lines in front of the movie houses were too long and we couldn't get in ? 
Suppose I hadn't brought along enough money ? 
I felt for my wallet . 
Its thick , substantial outline calmed me . 
But when I saw that it was already ten past seven , I began to wonder if something had gone wrong . 
Suppose her father had changed his mind and had refused to let her leave ? 
Suppose at this very moment her father was calling my house in an effort to cancel the plans ? 
I grew uneasy . 
All about me there was a hectic interplay of meetings taking place , like abrupt , jerky scenes in old silent movies , joyous greetings and beginnings , huggings and kissings , enthusiastic forays into the festive night . 
Whole platoons were taking up new positions on the steps , arriving and departing , while I stayed glued , like a signpost , to one spot . 
At 7:25 two hotel doormen came thumping down the steps , carrying a saw-horse to be set up as a barricade in front of the haberdashery store window next to the entranceway , and as I watched them in their gaudy red coats that nearly scraped the ground , their golden , fringed epaulets and spic , red-visored caps , I suddenly saw just over their shoulders Jessica gracefully making her way through the crowd . 
My heart almost stopped beating . 
There were thirty-eight patients on the bus the morning I left for Hanover , most of them disturbed and hallucinating . 
An interne , a nurse and two attendants were in charge of us . 
I felt lonely and depressed as I stared out the bus window at Chicago's grim , dirty West Side . 
It seemed incredible , as I listened to the monotonous drone of voices and smelled the fetid odors coming from the patients , that technically I was a ward of the state of Illinois , going to a hospital for the mentally ill . 
I suddenly thought of Mary Jane Brennan , the way her pretty eyes could flash with anger , her quiet competence , the gentleness and sweetness that lay just beneath the surface of her defenses . 
We had become good friends during my stay at Cook County Hospital . 
I had told her enough about myself to offset somewhat the damaging stories that had appeared in local newspapers after my little adventure in Marshall Field & Co. . 
She knew that I lived at a good address on the Gold Coast , that I had once been a medical student and was thinking of returning to the university to finish my medical studies . 
She knew also that I was unmarried and without a single known relative . 
She wasn't quite sure that I felt enough remorse about my drinking , or that I would not return to it once I was out and on my own again . 
This had worried her . 
`` I read those newspaper stories about you '' , she had said . 
`` You must have loved that girl very much , but you couldn't have meant it when you said that you wanted to kill her '' . 
`` Why do you say that '' ? 
I asked . 
`` I was full of booze and , well , a drunk is apt to do anything he says he'll do '' . 
Nonsense ! 
I grew up in an Irish neighborhood on Chicago's West Side . 
Don't tell me about drunks . 
You're not the kind to go violent . 
Were you in love with that girl '' ? 
`` Would it make any difference to you if I were , Mary Jane '' ? 
She met my eyes , suddenly angry . 
`` I wouldn't have gone into nursing if I didn't care about people . 
I'm interested in every patient I've helped take care of . 
When I think of people like you , well , I '' -- `` You what , Mary Jane '' ? 
`` You are young , intelligent , have a whole lifetime before you to make something worth while of yourself , but you mess it up with whiskey , indifference , self-destructive attitudes . 
I don't blame that girl for breaking her engagement with you . 
Was she pretty '' ? 
`` Oh , yes '' , I said , feeling annoyed , `` she was very pretty . 
You don't believe that I'm going back to medical school and finish , do you '' ? 
`` Why should I ? 
I've worked this ward for three months now . 
We keep getting the same ones back again and again . 
They all mean well , have great promises to make when they are about to go home , but drinking is their sickness . 
You've not seemed like them , but maybe you are . 
You've treated your stay here like a big joke . 
It's not a joke to be sent to a place like this or to Hanover . 
I wanted to go to college , too '' -- `` Why didn't you '' ? 
I asked . 
`` Chicago has some of the best '' -- Her eyes flashed angrily . 
`` That's what I mean about you , Anderson '' , she said . 
`` You don't seem to know much about reality . 
I'll tell you why I didn't go to college ; ; I'm the oldest of six children . 
My father's a policeman and makes less than seven thousand dollars a year . 
There was no money for tuition , for clothes , for all the things you apparently take for granted . 
Nurses' training here doesn't cost anything . 
They even pay me six dollars a month . 
I think it's a good deal . 
I'm going to become a good nurse , and I've got two baby brothers that are going to have college if I have to work at my profession until I'm an old maid to give it to them '' . 
`` Do you have a boy friend '' ? 
I asked . 
`` That's none of your business '' , she said , then changed the subject . 
`` What about your father and mother , don't you think of them when you're in a place like this '' ? 
`` My father and mother died when I was two years old '' , I said . 
`` My aunt raised me . 
Aunt Mary died when I was doing my military service . 
I have no one but myself to worry about '' . 
Something in my voice must have touched her deeply because her anger passed quickly , and she turned away to keep me from seeing her face . 
`` I'm sorry '' , she said . 
`` I don't know what I'd do without my family . 
We've always been so close '' . 
`` Tell me more about them '' . 
Her eyes became bright as she talked about her father and mother , aunts and uncles , cousins . 
Listening , I felt cheated and lonely as only an orphan can . 
When she had finished I said : `` Your dad sounds like a good father and a good policeman . 
I'll bet he wouldn't be pleased if a rumdum like me were to ask his daughter for a date -- I mean , after I'm out of the hospital , a month or so from now '' . 
`` My father is a sergeant of detectives and has been attached to Homicide for five years . 
He's a pretty good judge of character , Anderson . 
I don't think he'd mind too much if he were sure you'd decided not to be a rumdum in the future '' . 
`` What about you ? 
How would you feel about it if I were to ask you for a date when I get through at Hanover '' ? 
`` If I thought you were serious about going back to school , that you'd learned something from your experiences here and at Hanover -- well , I might consider such an offer . 
What about your that girl you were going to kill '' ? 
It suddenly seemed very important to me that Mary Jane Brennan should know the truth about me -- that I was not the confused , sick , irresponsible person she believed me to be . 
`` There are things about me that I can't tell you now , Mary Jane '' , I said , `` but if you'll go out to dinner with me when I get out of Hanover , I'd like to tell you the whole story . 
I can say this : I'm dead serious about going back to school . 
As for that other girl , let's just say that I never want to see her again . 
You will get to come home on long weekends from Hanover , won't you '' ? 
`` Yes , I'll get one overnight a month '' . 
`` We'll go up to the Edgewater Beach Hotel for dinner '' , I said . 
`` Do you like to dance ? 
They always have a good orchestra '' . 
`` I like to dance '' , she said , then turned and walked away . 
There hadn't been anything really personal in her interest in me . 
I knew that . 
It was just that she felt deeply about every patient on the ward and wanted to believe that they might benefit from their treatment there . 
Now , riding this hospital bus , feeling isolated and utterly alone , I knew that she was genuine and unique , quite unlike any girl I had known before . 
It seemed the most important thing in my life at this moment that she should know the real truth about me . 
It was a fantastic story . 
Only two people in the state of Illinois knew that I was entering Hanover State Hospital under an assumed name , or why . 
It was unlikely that any girl as sharp as Mary Jane Brennan would believe it without proof . 
But I had the proof , all documented in a legal agreement which I would show her the moment I was free to do so . 
As the bus turned into the main highway and headed toward Hanover I settled back in my seat and closed my eyes , thinking over the events of the past two weeks , trying to put the pieces in order . 
I wondered suddenly as I listened to the disconnected jabberings coming from the patient behind me , if I had not perhaps imagined it all . 
Perhaps this was reality and Dale Nelson , the actor , was delusion ; ; a figment of Carl Anderson's imagination . 
Four I had come to Chicago from New York early in September with a dramatic production called Ask Tony . 
It was a bad play , real grade-A turkey , which only a prevalence of angels with grandiose dreams of capital gain and tax money to burn could have put into rehearsal . 
No one , not even the producer , had any real hope of getting it back to Broadway . 
But because it was a suspense gangster story of the Capone era , many of us felt that it might catch on for a run in Chicago , continue as a road company , and eventually become a movie . 
Such optimism was completely unjustified . 
The critics literally screamed their indignation . 
Ask Tony was doomed from the moment Kupcinet leveled on it in his Sun-Times column . 
We opened on Friday and closed the following Monday . 
Out of the entire cast I alone received good notices for my portrayal of a psychopathic killer . 
This let me in for a lot of kidding from the rest of the company , two members of which were native Chicagoans . 
We were paid off Tuesday morning and given tickets back to New York . 
I felt lonely and depressed as I packed my bags at the Croydon Hotel . 
It seemed to me that my life was destined to be one brilliant failure after another . 
I had been among the top third in my class at N.Y.U. , had wanted desperately to go to medical school , but I'd run out of money and energy at the same time . 
Then later I had quit my safe , secure five-a-week spot on a network soap opera to take a part in this play . 
It seemed to me that I was not only unlucky but quite stupid as well . 
I knew that I'd soon be back working as an orderly at the hospital or as a counterman at Union News or Schraffts while waiting for another acting job to open . 
It suddenly occurred to me that I did not particularly like acting , that I was at some sort of crossroads and would have to decide soon what I was going to do with my life . 
I closed the last bag and stood all three at the door for the bellboy to pick up , then went to the bathroom for a drink of water . 
The telephone rang . 
When I answered it a voice too dignified and British to be real said , `` Is this Mr. Dale Nelson , the actor '' ? 
`` All right '' , I said . 
`` Why don't you bastards lay off for a while '' ? 
`` I beg your pardon , sir '' ? 
`` All right . 
This is Dale Nelson the actor '' . 
`` Good . 
I'm calling you , Mr. Nelson , at the request of Mr. Phillip Wycoff . 
Could you possibly have lunch with him today ? 
His car could pick you up at your hotel at twelve '' . 
I smiled . 
`` You'll send the Rolls-Royce , of course '' ? 
`` Yes , of course , Mr. Nelson '' . 
I started to say something else appropriate , but the man had hung up . 
I finally went downstairs to the bar off the main lobby where most of the cast were drowning their sorrows over the untimely passing of Ask Tony . 
They all bowed low as I approached them . 
`` All right , you bastards '' , I said , `` the great actor is about to buy a drink '' . 
I laid a tenspot on the bar and motioned to the bartender to serve a round . 
He had just returned my change when the doorman came in off the street to page me . 
I walked over to him . 
`` You Mr. Nelson '' ? 
He asked . 
`` That's right '' . 
`` Mr. Wycoff's car is waiting for you at the east entrance '' . 
I followed him out through the lobby to the street . 
An ancient Rolls-Royce , as shiningly impressive as the day it came off the ship , was parked at the curb . 
The elderly chauffeur , immaculate in a dark uniform , stood stiffly at attention holding open the door of the town car . 
I was giving the parked cars the once-over . 
The Oldsmobile with the license number JYJ 114 was in stall number five . 
`` Okay '' , I said to the attendant , `` I'll let you know if I close the deal on the office in this building '' . 
I walked with him back to the entrance . 
He gave me a ticket on the agency car and parked it . 
I was back in ten minutes . 
`` Forgot to get something out of the car '' , I told him , showing him my ticket . 
He started to say something as I walked in and then suddenly grinned and said , `` Oh , yes . 
You're the one I was talking to about a monthly rental . 
`` That's right '' , I told him . 
He consulted the parking ticket , then looked at a notation and said , `` You're in the third row back toward the rear . 
Can you find it all right '' ? 
`` Sure '' , I told him . 
I went back to the agency car and got out an electric bug , one of the newest devices for electronic shadowing . 
I always keep a set in the car . 
I put in new batteries so as to be certain I'd have plenty of power and on my way out walked over to the regular parking stalls and stood looking at them thoughtfully . 
I waited until the parking attendant was busy with a customer , then slipped around the back of the car with license number JYM 114 , attached the electronic bug to the rear bumper and walked out . 
The attendant waved me on . 
One of the hardest chores a detective has is hanging around on a city street , trying to make himself inconspicuous , keeping an eye on the entrance of an office building and waiting . 
For the first fifteen or twenty minutes it's possible to be more or less interested in window displays , then in people passing by . 
After a while , however , a person's mind gets fed up and that magnifies all of the disagreeable physical symptoms which go with that sort of an assignment . 
You want to sit down . 
Your leg muscles and back muscles feel weary . 
You're conscious of the fact that your feet hurt , that the city pavements are hard . 
I waited a solid two hours before my man came out of the office building . 
He came out alone . 
I wasn't far behind him when he entered the parking lot and hurried over to his car . 
The attendant recognized me once more and said , `` What did you do about that office '' ? 
`` I haven't made up my mind yet '' , I said . 
`` It's a sublease . 
I have a couple of them I'm figuring on ; ; one here and one that's out quite a ways where there's usually curb parking '' . 
`` That curb parking is undependable and annoying , particularly when it rains '' , he said . 
I kept trying to get him to take my money . 
`` Okay '' , I told him . 
`` I'm in a rush right now . 
I know where the car is . 
Want me to drive it out '' ? 
`` I'll have one of the boys get it '' , he said . 
`` It's one of the rules on transients . 
Regulars drive out their own cars '' . 
`` Make it as snappy as you can , will you '' ? 
I asked . 
`` Oh , that's all right '' , he said . 
`` You're going to be a regular . 
You'll get in the office building here . 
You don't want to lease a place way out in the sticks . 
You get business where the business is , not where it isn't '' . 
I grinned at him , handed him a couple of dollars and said , `` By the time you get the parking charge figured up , there should be a cigar in it for you '' . 
I hurried over to the agency heap , jumped in , started the motor and was just in time to see the car I wanted to shadow turn to the left . 
I was held up a bit trying to make a left turn . 
By the time I'd made it he was gone . 
Traffic was pretty heavy . 
I turned on the electric bug , and the signal came in loud and clear . 
I made time and picked him up within ten blocks . 
I stayed half a block behind him , letting lots of cars keep in between us , listening to the steady beep beep beep . 
After fifteen minutes of traffic driving he turned to the left . 
I couldn't see him , but the electric bugging device gave steady beeps when it was straight ahead , short half beeps when the car I was following was to the left , and long drawn-out beeps when it turned to the right . 
If it ever got behind me , the beep turned to a buzz . 
I turned left too soon and got a signal showing that I was still behind him but he was to the right . 
After a while the signal became a buzz and I knew he was behind me . 
That meant he'd parked someplace . 
I made a big circle until I located the car parked at the curb in front of an apartment house . 
I found a parking place half a block away , sat in the car and waited . 
My quarry was in the apartment house for two hours . 
Then he came out and started driving toward the beach . 
By this time it was dark . 
I could get up close to him where there was traffic but had to drop far behind when there wasn't traffic . 
My lights would have been a giveaway if I'd tried to shadow him in the conventional manner . 
Moreover , I'd have lost him if it hadn't been for the electronic shadowing device . 
His signal was coming loud and clear and then all of a sudden it turned to a buzz . 
I circled the block and found he was in the parking lot of a high-class restaurant . 
I sat where I could watch the exit and realized I was hungry . 
I sat there with the faint odor of charcoal-broiled steaks tantalizing my nostrils and occasionally catching the aroma of coffee . 
My man came out an hour later , drove to the beach , turned right and after half a mile went to the Swim and Tan Motel . 
It was a fairly modern motel with quite a bit of electrical display in front . 
I remembered it was the Peeping Tom place . 
I waited until my man was coming out of the office with the key to a cabin before I went in to register . 
The card the man I was shadowing had filled out was still on the counter . 
I noticed that he was in Unit 12 and that he had registered under the name of Oscar L. Palmer and wife , giving a San Francisco address . 
He had written out the license number of his car but had transposed the last two figures , an old dodge which is still good . 
Ninety-nine times out of a hundred the motel manager doesn't check the license number on the plates against the license number the tenant writes out . 
If he does , it's still better than an even chance he won't notice the transposition of the numbers , and if he should notice it , the thing can be passed off as an honest mistake . 
I used the alias of Robert C. Richards , gave the first three letters and the first and last figure of the license number on the agency heap , but a couple of phony numbers in between . 
I could have written anything . 
The manager of the motel was a woman who apparently didn't care . 
She was complying with the law in regard to registrations but she certainly wasn't checking license numbers or bothering the tenants . 
`` You mean you're all alone , Mr. Richards '' ? 
`` That's right '' . 
`` Your wife isn't going to join you -- later '' ? 
`` I don't think so '' . 
`` If you expect her to show up '' , she said , `` you'd better put ' and wife ' on there . 
It's a formality , you know '' . 
`` Any difference in the rate '' ? 
I asked . 
`` Not to you '' , she said smiling . 
`` It's ten dollars either way . 
There are ice cubes in a container at the far end and in another by the office . 
There are three soft-drink vending machines , and if you should be joined by -- anybody -- try to keep things quiet , if you will . 
We like to run a nice quiet place '' . 
`` Thank you '' , I told her . 
I took another sidelong glance at the other registration card , then took the key to Unit 13 that she had given me and went down long enough to park the car . 
The construction was reasonably solid ; ; not like the cracker-box construction of so many of the motel units that have stucco all over the outside but walls that are thin enough so you can hear every movement of the people in the adjoining apartment . 
I put a small electric amplifier against the wall on the side I wanted to case . 
With the aid of that I could hear my man moving around , heard him cough a couple of times , heard the toilet flush , heard the sound of water running . 
Whoever his companion was going to be , she was going to join him later . 
She knew where to come . 
He didn't have to telephone . 
I was so hungry my stomach felt all lines of communication had been severed . 
It's one thing to go without food when you're occupied with some work or when you're simply postponing a meal , but when you're dependent on someone else and know that you can't eat until he's bedded down for the night , hunger can be a gnawing torture . 
I had noticed a drive-in down the road a quarter of a mile . 
The batteries on the bugging device I had put on the car were still fresh enough to send out good strong signals . 
The powerful microphone I could press against the wall between my motel unit and that occupied by the man would bring in the sound of any conversation , and I was positively nauseated I was so hungry . 
I got in the car , drove down to the drive-in and ordered a couple of hamburgers with everything included , a cup of coffee and the fastest service possible . 
The place wasn't particularly busy at that time of night , and the girl who was waiting on me , who was clothed in the tightest-fitting pair of slacks I had ever seen on a woman and a sweater that showed everything there was -- and there was lots of it -- wanted to be sociable . 
`` You really in a hurry , Handsome '' ? 
She asked . 
`` I'm in a hurry , Beautiful '' . 
`` It's early in the evening to be in a hurry . 
There's lots of time left '' . 
`` There may not be any women left '' , I said . 
She gave a little pout and said , `` I don't get off work until eleven o'clock . 
That's when my evening commences '' . 
`` I'll be here at ten-fifty-five '' , I said . 
`` Oh , you ! 
'' She announced . 
`` That's what they all say . 
What's that thing going buzz-buzz-buzz in your car '' ? 
I said `` Darn it , that's the automatic signal that shows when the ignition key is on . 
I didn't turn it off '' . 
I reached over and switched off the electronic bugging device . 
She went in to get the hamburgers , and I switched on the device again and kept the signal from Dowling's car coming in steady and clear until I saw her starting back with the hamburgers . 
Then I shut off the device again . 
She wanted to hang around while I was eating . 
`` Don't you think it's selfish to have dinner before you go to pick her up '' ? 
`` No '' , I said . 
`` It's a kindness to her . 
You see , she's on a diet . 
She'll eat just a pineapple and cottage cheese salad and I'm to have one with her so she won't feel out of place '' . 
`` Diets can be terrible '' , the girl said . 
`` How much overweight is she '' ? 
`` Not a bit '' , I said , `` but she's keeping her figure in hand '' . 
She looked at me provocatively . 
`` Good figures should be kept in hand '' , she said , and walked away with an exaggerated wiggle . 
I turned on the device again , half fearful that I might find silence , but the buzzes came in loud and clear . 
When I switched on the lights for her to come and get the check , I had the exact change plus a dollar tip . 
The fat man said , `` All we gotta do is go around the corner '' . 
The gun moved . 
The thin man said , `` That-a-way '' . 
`` -- second building on the right '' . 
`` -- it says police right on the door '' . 
`` -- so even if we was as dumb as you take us for , we could still find it '' . 
Roberta and Dave began to back toward the door . 
The thin man waved the gun again . 
He said , `` Right around the corner '' . 
`` It says water works , but there is a policeman on duty , too '' . 
`` A night policeman just like in the States . 
You know '' ? 
`` Canada doesn't have much of this here juvenile delinquency problem , but we keep a night policeman all the same on account of the crazy tourists '' . 
At the door , Dave paused to feel for the latch . 
Roberta glanced up at her husband . 
He was going to be sensible and not try to do anything rash with that gun pointed at him . 
She measured the distance from where they stood to the men and the gun , measured the distance from the men to the back room . 
She decided to risk it . 
There was something phony about all this gun waving -- something not quite what it seemed in the detailed directions for finding the police . 
Dave had the latch under his thumb now and he removed his arm from his wife in order to pull the door open . 
In a flash she was away to the back , paying no attention to three angry shouts from the male throats . 
She tore open the back door . 
It was dark inside the room but enough light spilled from the restaurant behind her to enable her to make out a round table with a green cloth top . 
There was a small sideboard with some empty beer bottles on it and perhaps fifteen wooden chairs . 
Slowly she turned to face the men again . 
Rat-face at the counter was on his feet . 
The distance between where she stood and where Dave waited at the outside door was a hundred miles . 
Keeping her frightened gaze on the men at the counter , she began to feel her way to the door . 
She sidled along the booths one step at a time . 
The gun followed her . 
As she reached Dave and felt his arm go around her , felt him pull her to the safety of his person , she knew with the certainty of despair that something bad had happened to Lauren . 
The two men watched as Dave closed the door behind them , watched them cross the sidewalk to their car . 
It was getting light . 
The fat man removed his apron , put on a greasy and wrinkled jacket , and zipped it over his paunch . 
The thin man moved swiftly to the phone and dialed a number . 
When he was answered , he said , `` Albert ? 
Vince . 
I'm sending you a couple of customers -- yeah -- just get them out of my hair and keep them out -- I don't give a damn what you tell them -- only don't believe a word they say -- they're out to make trouble for me and it is up to you to stop them -- I don't care how -- and one more thing -- Cate's Cafe closed at eleven like always last night and Rose and Clarence Corsi left for Quebec yesterday -- some shrine or other -- I think it was called Saint Simon's -- yeah , yesterday . 
Got it '' ? 
He turned from the phone and strode to the front of the restaurant . 
The white Buick hadn't moved away yet . 
Good . 
A line of worry formed , a twitch pulled his mouth over to one side . 
He said , `` Grosse ? 
You ain't kidding me -- the kid don't know the name of this town '' ? 
`` I ain't kidding you , Vince . 
How could she ? 
She musta been walking in her sleep -- you seen her yourself in here '' . 
`` Howda I know '' ? 
`` Remember how she looked when Barney held the door for her ? 
Kinda like a zombie ? 
She was just waking up when we found her at the garage '' . 
Vince swore . 
`` Stupid fools -- ain't got enough brains between the two of you '' -- Grosse muttered , his head down , one hand playing with the zipper on his jacket . 
`` -- had enough brains to call ya up so as ya could do sompin about it when the parents -- I coulda let her go go '' -- His eyes were lowered , so he couldn't have seen the narrow , pointed face of his companion suddenly writhe with fury ; ; but he was aware of it just the same . 
He knew Vince Steiner was one of those men who had to work up a fury once in a while just to prove how dangerous he could be . 
With a curse , Vince seized the thing nearest , a glass sugar container with a spouted metal top , and threw it against the wall opposite . 
The heavy glass didn't break , but the top flew off ; ; sugar sprayed with a hiss that was loud in the silence . 
Not really startled , but careful to appear so , Grosse sucked noisily on his pipe . 
Vince cursed steadily . 
`` Why does everything have to happen to me '' ? 
Grosse quietly got a broom and started to sweep up the sugar . 
Vince watched him . 
His mouth worked over the profanity , the obscenities in his vocabulary . 
Once he said , `` Why'n hell didn't you look in the back seat of the car before you drove off ? 
Don't you and Barney ever use your brains '' ? 
The fat man didn't answer . 
He got one of the menus and brushed the spilled sugar onto it and carried it to a box on the floor behind the counter . 
He returned the menu to its place between catchup bottle and paper napkin dispenser . 
He spoke soothingly . 
`` She don't know nothing about them cars . 
She thinks she's in a ordinary garage '' . 
`` How do you know , stupid ? 
And put Cate's gun back '' . 
`` I know '' . 
Grosse tucked the gun under the counter . 
`` -- one word of this gets to Guardino '' -- `` Who's telling Guardino '' ? 
Vince swore again . 
`` You get that kid over to Rose's house '' . 
The fat man winced . 
He ran a finger down his cheek , tracing the scratch there . 
`` Why can't I leave her locked up in the tool crib '' ? 
The thin man stopped his pacing long enough to glance at the clock . 
`` You and Barney get her over to Rose's before it gets too light . 
After Guardino's left , we'll dump the kid somewhere near the border where she kin get home . 
God help you if she knows where she's been '' . 
Grosse spread his hands . 
`` What am I going to do with her all day ? 
In the tool crib she can't get away '' . 
`` What the hell do I care what you do with her all day ? 
Just get her where Guardino won't see her and start asking questions '' . 
Grosse swore now . 
`` Dammit all , Vince . 
I ain't no baby sitter '' . 
Vince shouted finally , `` Get her over to Rose's and I'll come by and see that she stays put '' . 
Grosse rubbed the bridge of his nose where it was swollen . 
He spoke sullenly . 
`` You don't hafta get nasty . 
I wish you luck when you try scaring that kid '' . 
Suddenly he grinned . 
His voice lost its sullen tones and he chuckled . 
`` I got one question '' . 
`` What is it '' ? 
Impatiently . 
`` Are you a poor dumb Canadian or a smart aleck from the States '' ? 
Vince lifted his hand as if to strike , but his thin lips spread in a smile . 
Grosse ducked and sniggered . 
`` Where'd you say you was born '' ? 
`` In a Chicago slum just like you . 
And I ain't going back there on account of one lousy kid '' . 
Lauren Landis rubbed her face against the blanket . 
She had cried a little because she was frightened . 
She could easily understand why the two men had been startled to find a strange girl in the back seat of their car ( she had figured that out ) , but she couldn't understand their subsequent actions . 
Was it because she had shown panic ? 
Who could blame her for that ? 
It was one thing to awaken outside a restaurant where your parents were eating and quite another to awaken in a strange garage and know your parents had gone on home without you . 
She was glad the fat man had left . 
Barney was not really frightening . 
She jumped as the little man now appeared at the window and , reaching through the opening , offered her a bottle of coke . 
She smiled at him wetly . 
Although she found she was thirsty , she was about to refuse ( never , never take candy from a strange man ) when she saw the bottle was unopened . 
He placed a bottle opener on the counter . 
So , he understood her panic . 
She blew her nose on a tissue and opened the coke bottle . 
It was icy cold and tasted delicious . 
She felt a lift in spirit . 
When she was finished she pushed it back . 
The man was busy doing something to the inside of the door-frame on the driver's side of a car . 
She called softly , `` Barney '' . 
He looked in her direction but he didn't answer . 
She said , `` Barney , why is he keeping me here '' ? 
Still no answer . 
He seemed to be looking at a point above the little window . 
Lauren said , `` Why can't I call my home ? 
Or borrow some money from someone and go home by bus ? 
I could send the money right back '' . 
Barney finished the cigarette he had been smoking . 
He dropped it and carefully ground it to nothing with the sole of his heavy shoe . 
Now he looked at her . 
He said , `` I only work here '' . 
Lauren said , `` Please '' ? 
But he was back at work on a car . 
She dropped her head on her arms on the counter . 
How could he be kind one moment and cruel the next ? 
Did he know something that made him feel sad and sorry for her ? 
And was he afraid to do anything as definite as releasing her ? 
Her heart was thumping painfully ; ; the unknown was so much worse than -- what dangers lay ahead for her ? 
What awful thing had she to face in the next few hours ? 
Something wet and hot was trickling on her wrists . 
Tears ? 
With a sturdy act of will she turned her mind away from herself ; ; as long as she could do nothing constructive about the situation she was in , she would think about something else . 
Her mother and father , for instance . 
Where were they now ? 
In her mind she followed the white Buick along the road somewhere between here and the Niagara River . 
Her father's attention would be on the road ahead and it wouldn't deviate an inch until he crossed the bridge at the Falls and took the River Road to LaSalle and , finally , turned in at their own driveway at 387 Heather Heights . 
Then he would yawn and stretch and shout , `` All out . 
This is the end of the line '' . 
And what would her mother be doing right now ? 
Her mother would be fast asleep curled up against that wonderful , big , safe , solid shoulder next to her on the front seat . 
Lauren Landis was in trouble and she was alone . 
Roberta Landis put her hand on her husband's arm as he slid in the driver's seat beside her . 
Somewhere birds were sweetly calling , were answered . 
Her teeth chattered so that she made three attempts at speech before she became intelligible . 
`` Dave . 
I saw that woman's apron behind the door . 
There was a wet spot -- she couldn't have been gone long '' . 
Dave made some sound meant to convey agreement . 
He inserted the car key in the lock . 
Roberta was violently trembling . 
She stammered , `` You heard what he said about police ? 
Why don't we drive around the corner '' ? 
The car door crashed shut . 
The engine throbbed into life . 
Dave said , `` I got the message . 
We're going '' . 
Roberta said , `` no . 
You go . 
Walk . 
Suppose Lauren comes looking for us ? 
I can sit here in the car while you walk around the corner '' . 
The big car sprang away from the curb like something alive . 
He said , `` I'm not going to leave my wife and my car out here in sight of those '' -- Roberta glanced at him and stopped trembling . 
His jowls were spiked by barbs of graying beard . 
His small , mean eyes regarded Marty steadily , unblinkingly . 
His eyes were threaded by little filaments of red as if tiny veins had burst and flooded blood into them . 
As he chewed his gum and exuded wheezing breath , Marty smelt the reek of bad whiskey . 
Marty recognized the man . 
He had driven the car that passed them on the road outside Admassy's place . 
This was Acey Squire , proprietor of the juke joint . 
Marty smiled at Squire pleasantly and said , `` There was a cab waiting for me here . 
Do you know where it might have gone '' ? 
Squire chewed his gum , his jaw moving in a steady rhythm . 
He looked straight at Marty . 
He did not answer . 
Marty scanned the faces of the others nearest him , looked into their staring eyes . 
`` Did anyone see my cab '' ? 
He asked , keeping his voice casual . 
He avoided showing any surprise or annoyance when no one answered him . 
`` I have to get back to Jarrodsville '' , he went on . 
`` I see there are some cars here . 
I wonder if one of you gentlemen could drive me back to town ? 
I'd be happy to pay for the favor , of course '' . 
The seventeen men stood and stared at him for a moment longer . 
And then a startling thing occurred . 
It was so utterly unexpected that Marty stood for several moments with his mouth hanging open foolishly after it had happened . 
There was no word spoken , no apparent signal given . 
Yet the men all moved at the same instant . 
They piled into the waiting cars , motors roared , the cars sped off . 
The station wagon and the old Plymouth headed east toward Jarrodsville . 
The Ford and the pickup truck sped west toward Sanford's Run . 
In seconds all four cars were out of sight . 
Marty Land stood alone on a red-clay road as storm clouds gathered ominously in the sky again . 
From a great distance thunder growled and broke the silence . 
Land looked back toward the dilapidated house . 
He thought he saw a pale face at a window . 
Perhaps it was Dora May . 
Perhaps she would be glad that they hadn't hurt him . 
There were other farmhouses nearby . 
Across the road there was one no more than a hundred yards away . 
There was another on this side , a little further down . 
There were many more between here and Jarrodsville . 
Telephone poles lined the road . 
They reared tall and mocking . 
Their wires stretched out into infinity . 
Not a single strand of wire reached into the silent houses beside the red-clay road . 
There was nothing he could do but walk . 
And Jarrodsville was more than three miles away , down an old dirt road that the rain had turned into a quagmire . 
Marty faced east and started walking down the left side of the road . 
After he had proceeded a few feet , he paused and turned up the cuffs of his trousers , which were already damp and mud-caked . 
The viscous mud was ankle-deep , and in places great puddles spread across the road and reflected the murky light . 
As he approached the first farmhouse , thunder sounded behind him again , closer now and louder , like a steadily advancing drum corps . 
There were several people on the porch of the farmhouse . 
There was a very old man and a young woman and a brood of children ranging from toddlers to teen-agers . 
For just an instant he thought of appealing to them for help . 
Perhaps they had a car or truck and would drive him into town . 
Then he realized the utter futility of the idea . 
They were staring at him in the same blank and menacing way that the men outside the gate had stared . 
Even the eyes of the smallest children seemed malicious . 
On his side of the road there were two farm hands , well back in a field , leaning against a plow . 
They , too , stared at him . 
The drums of thunder were right behind him now . 
A foolish thought came into his head . 
He remembered a story he had read as a youth . 
It was probably one of Kipling's tales of the British Army . 
It concerned an officer who had been disgraced and drummed out . 
The steady roll of the drums had sounded behind him as he walked between the endless ranks of the men he had commanded , and each man about-faced and turned his back as the officer approached . 
Marty wished these poor farm people would turn their backs . 
The fencing by the roadside ended . 
Now the dirt highway was bordered on either side by a fairly deep drainage ditch , too broad to leap over unless you were an Olympic star . 
The day's rain had been added to the stagnant water . 
He was trapped on the road when he heard the sound of an approaching car . 
It was coming toward him . 
The car was now in sight . 
Marty's heart skipped a beat when he recognized it . 
It was the station wagon that had passed his cab on the road , the station wagon that had been parked at the Burch farm . 
Acey Squire's station wagon . 
It had headed back toward Jarrodsville . 
That had only been a ruse to lure him out on the deserted road . 
Now Acey and his friends were returning to seek him out . 
The station wagon came to a stop a couple of hundred feet in front of him , beside a fenced field . 
Then there was another sound . 
A second car was coming from the west , from the direction of Sanford's Run . 
It was the Ford that had been outside Burch's farm . 
Marty looked helplessly in both directions . 
It was a narrow road , barely wide enough for two cars to pass . 
He could not leave the road because of the water-filled drainage ditch . 
When the two cars were equidistant from him , the station wagon started up again and the Ford gathered speed . 
They bore down on him . 
There was nothing he could do except jump into the ditch . 
He jumped , and sank to his knees in muddy water . 
As the two cars roared by , there was a high-pitched eerie , nerve-shattering sound . 
Marty knew how the Union soldiers must have felt at Chancellorsville and Antietam and Gettysburg when the ragged gray ranks charged at them , screaming the wild banshee howl they called the Rebel yell . 
For moments he stood in water , shivering and gasping for breath . 
He had turned his ankle slightly , and it pained him . 
The cars , with their load of howling men , had disappeared in the distance . 
There had been two more cars parked at the farm , a Plymouth and a pickup truck . 
They would be coming for him next , bearing down on him from both directions . 
And then the station wagon and the Ford would seek him out again . 
He would be harassed repeatedly and would escape death by inches time after time , all the way to Jarrodsville . 
He still had three miles to go . 
Back East the more affluent juvenile delinquents , who could afford hyped-up autos instead of switch blades as lethal weapons , played this same game and called it `` Chicken '' . 
He could not go through the fields . 
That way was barred on both sides of the road by a high barbed-wire fence . 
He had to make for the section of road just ahead that was bordered by the rail fence , the section by the farmhouse . 
At least he could climb up on the fence when his tormenters roared by again . 
The Admassy place could not be far now . 
He would go in there , climb through the window , and at least be safe for a little while and able to rest . 
There was even a bare chance that the phone had not been disconnected . 
He did not dare climb back up to the road . 
He was deep in water , but at least they could not reach him there . 
He splashed on , mud sucking at his feet with each step , until he reached the end of the drainage ditch and the beginning of the fence that enclosed the farm . 
He climbed back to the road , and he felt utterly exhausted . 
He stood , panting , for a moment . 
And then he saw something that he had not seen before , and panic gripped him again . 
The fence , his only refuge when the metal death came roaring at him , was made of rails , all right , but the rails were protected by a thick screening of barbed wire that would rip his flesh if he pressed against it . 
He lurched on down the road despairingly , because there was no place else to go . 
He lost all sense of dignity . 
You could not stand on dignity when you were soaked and muddied and your life was at stake . 
Probably people were watching him from the porch or from behind the windows of this farmhouse , too , but he did not bother to look . 
He broke into a dogtrot , breathing heavily , streaming with sweat . 
He had to reach Admassy's place . 
It was his only sanctuary . 
The fences on both sides of the road bristled with the barbed wire . 
The fences stretched on endlessly . 
And then he heard them . 
And now he saw them . 
The Plymouth was coming at him from the east , the pickup truck from the west . 
They had timed it better this time . 
They would reach him at almost exactly the same instant . 
He stopped stone-still . 
If he backed against the fence , one of the cars would brush him as it passed , and he would be cruelly lacerated by the wire . 
He stumbled to the middle of the road and simply stood there , waiting for them , a perfect target . 
The cars must have had their gas pedals pushed down to the floor boards . 
They were coming on at reckless speed for such old vehicles . 
They thundered at him . 
He held his arms close to his sides and made himself as small as possible . 
When the Plymouth neared , it veered toward him and seemed about to run him down . 
He forced himself to stay frozen there . 
If he moved , he would be in the path of the other car . 
He thought the fender of the Plymouth brushed his jacket as it went by . 
In a fraction of a second the pickup truck hurtled by on the other side . 
The weird , insane sound of the Rebel yell reverberated again and echoed from the distant hills . 
He did not leave the middle of the road . 
He did not try to run . 
He trudged on , his aching eyes focused straight ahead . 
He was nearing the Admassy house . 
He was going to make it , he told himself . 
And then he heard a car coming from the east , and he felt as if he would break down and weep . 
`` Oh , no , not again '' , he said aloud . 
`` Not again so soon '' . 
There was a new sound , a sound as piercing as the Rebel yell , yet different . 
It was the sound of a siren . 
Now he saw that the approaching car was painted white , and he began to wave his arms frantically . 
It was the prowl car from the sheriff's office . 
The car drew up alongside him and stopped . 
`` Get in '' , Charley Estes said brusquely . 
He staggered into the back seat and lay back , fighting for breath . 
There was someone in front with the sheriff . 
It was Pete Holmes , the cabdriver . 
Pete turned around and said to Marty , `` I guess you think I'm a yellow-bellied hound . 
But there wasn't no use in me staying there . 
I couldn't fight a dozen or so of 'em . 
If I'd stayed , all that I'd have got was four punctured tires and one busted head . 
Why didn't you wait at the Burch house ? 
You must've known I'd gone to get the sheriff . 
I was lucky they let me go , I guess '' . 
The sheriff was occupied with maneuvering the car around in a very narrow space . 
When it was finally pointed east , he said , `` You should never have come out here alone . 
This is redneck country . 
Every man in every one of these houses is a Night Rider . 
Then he turned the telephone over to Rourke , and went into the bedroom to change his slippers for dry socks and shoes . 
Rourke was talking on the phone when he came back . 
`` About an hour , eh ? 
Are you positive '' ? 
He listened a moment and then said , `` Hold it '' . 
He turned his head and said , `` Alvarez will definitely be in a back room at the Jai Alai Club on South Beach within an hour . 
Want to try and meet him there '' ? 
Shayne looked at his watch . 
That wasn't too far from Fifth Street , and should allow him to make Scotty's Bar by midnight . 
He said with satisfaction , `` That's fine , Tim . 
I'll be there '' . 
Rourke confirmed the appointment over the phone and hung up . 
`` I don't know what you're getting into , Mike '' , he said unhappily . 
`` I hope to Christ . 
'' Shayne said briskly , `` Grab another drink if you want it . 
We've got one other call to make before I meet Alvarez '' . 
`` Where '' ? 
`` It's out in the Northeast section . 
Have you got my car here '' ? 
`` It's parked in front '' . 
Rourke hastily slopped whiskey into his glass on top of half-melted ice-cubes . 
`` I'd better keep on driving yours '' , Shayne decided , `` because I'll be going on over to the Beach . 
I can drop you back here to pick mine up '' . 
He went to a closet to get a light jacket , and took his hat from beside the door . 
Timothy Rourke gulped down the whiskey hastily and joined him , asking , `` Who are we going to call on in the Northeast section '' ? 
`` A lady . 
That is , maybe not too much of a lady . 
At least , I want to find out whether she's home yet or not '' . 
He opened the door and followed Rourke out . 
In Rourke's car , Shayne drove east to Biscayne Boulevard and north toward Felice Perrin's address which had been given to him by the Peralta governess . 
As he drove , he filled in Timothy Rourke briefly on the events of the evening after leaving the reporter to go to the Peralta house , and on his own surmises . 
`` I want to be in Scotty's Bar at midnight when Marsha makes her phone call there '' , he ended grimly . 
`` I don't know whether that threatening letter of hers has anything to do with this situation or not , but I want to see who takes the call '' . 
`` This deal at Las Putas Buenas where the two knife-men jumped you '' , said Rourke with interest , `` that sounds like it was set up with malice aforethought by the luscious Mrs. Peralta , doesn't it '' ? 
`` It does '' , Shayne grunted sourly , still able to taste her mouth on his in the Green Jungle parking lot . 
`` That story of hers about an unsigned note directing her to be there tonight sounds completely phony . 
If it was designed to put me on the spot , it would have to have been written before Peralta ever called me in on the case '' . 
`` Do you think Laura did have the counterfeit bracelet made without her husband's knowledge '' ? 
`` I haven't the faintest idea . 
I think her husband strongly suspects so , and that's why he called me in on the thing in direct defiance of his confederates and almost certainly without telling them why he was doing so . 
Isn't this Felice's street '' ? 
Shayne asked , peering ahead at the partially obscured street sign . 
Rourke could see it better out the right-hand side , and he said , `` yes . 
Turn to the left , I think , for that number you gave me . 
Not more than a block or so '' . 
Shayne got in the left-hand lane and cut across the Boulevard divider . 
There was a small , neon-lighted restaurant and cocktail lounge on the southeast corner of the intersection as he turned into the quiet , palm-lined street where most of the houses on both sides were older two-story mansions , now cut up into furnished rooms and housekeeping apartments . 
Shayne drove westward from the Boulevard slowly , letting Rourke crane his head out the window and watch for street numbers . 
A single automobile was parked half-way up the block on the left-hand side . 
Shayne noted idly that it carried Miami Beach license plates as he approached , and then saw the flare of a match in the front seat as they passed , indicating that it was occupied . 
He turned to see the briefly-illumed faces of two men in the parked car just as Rourke said , `` It's the next house , Mike . 
On the right '' . 
Instead of pulling into the curb , Shayne increased his speed slightly to the corner where he swung left . 
He went around the corner and parked , turning off his lights and motor . 
`` I told you , Mike '' , said Rourke in an aggrieved voice . 
`` It was back there . 
'' Shayne said , `` I know it was , Tim '' . 
His voice was chilling and cold . 
`` Did you see the car parked across the street '' ? 
`` I didn't notice it . 
I was watching for numbers . 
'' `` It has a Beach license , Tim . 
Two men in the front seat . 
I got a quick look at their faces as we went past . 
Unless I'm crazy as hell , they're two of Painter's dicks . 
A couple named Harris and Geely . 
Those names mean anything to you '' ? 
`` Wait a minute , Mike . 
In Painter's office this evening . 
'' Shayne nodded grimly . 
`` The pair whom Petey is officially commending for slapping me around and pulling me in '' . 
`` What are they doing here '' ? 
`` A stake-out , I suppose . 
On Felice Perrin . 
Maybe with specific orders to see that I don't make contact with her . 
I'm not positive , Tim . 
I may be wrong . 
I'll slide out and walk around the block back to the cocktail lounge on Biscayne . 
You drive on and circle back and pull up beside them parked there . 
You're a reporter , and you're looking for Miss Perrin to interview her . 
Make them show their hands . 
If they are Beach cops on a stake-out , they'll admit it to a reporter . 
They've got no official standing on this side of the Bay . 
As soon as you find out if they are Geely and Harris , come on around to the lounge where I'll be waiting '' . 
Shayne opened the door on his side and stepped out . 
Timothy Rourke groaned dismally as he slid under the wheel . 
`` The things you talk me into , Mike . 
'' Shayne chuckled . 
`` How often do they add up to headlines ? 
You should complain '' . 
He crossed the street and walked swiftly southward to circle back to the Boulevard and north a block to the open restaurant . 
He was standing at the end of the bar enjoying a slug of cognac when Rourke came in six or eight minutes later . 
The reporter nodded as he moved up beside him at the bar . 
Shayne told the bartender , `` Bourbon and water '' , and Rourke told him , `` It's those two , all right . 
Harris and Geely . 
I made them show me their identification before I could be persuaded not to call on Felice Perrin '' . 
Shayne said happily , `` I've got it all worked out , Tim . 
Take your time with your drink . 
I'll beat it . 
In exactly three minutes , go in that phone booth behind you and call Police Headquarters . 
Be excited and don't identify yourself . 
Just say that a couple of drunks are having a hell of a fight down the street , and they better send a patrol car . 
Then hang up fast and come walking on down to the Perrin address . 
I'll be waiting for you there '' . 
The bartender brought Rourke's drink and Shayne laid a twenty-dollar bill on the bar . 
He said in a low voice , `` I've got a date with a lady , Mister . 
Will that pay for a pint I can take with me . 
You know how it is '' , he added with a conspiratorial wink . 
`` Candy is dandy , but liquor is quicker and you don't have any candy for sale here anyhow '' . 
`` We sure don't '' . 
The bartender winked back at him and palmed the bill . 
He turned away and returned in a moment with a pint of brandy in a small paper sack which he slid over the counter to Shayne . 
As the detective slid it into his pocket , Rourke asked sadly , `` What in hell are you going to do , Mike '' ? 
`` Make a couple of punk detectives named Geely and Harris wish to God they'd stayed out of my way this afternoon . 
Three minutes , Tim '' . 
Shayne strode out blithely , and Rourke checked his watch and sipped his drink , getting a dime ready to make the telephone call to the police . 
Outside , Shayne hesitated when he saw that Rourke had parked his coupe directly in front of the bar headed south . 
He walked over to the right-hand door , opened it and got the reloaded automatic out of the glove compartment and put it in his hip pocket . 
He hoped he wouldn't be forced to use it in taking care of the Beach detectives , but its weight was comforting at his hip . 
On this side of the Bay , Miami Beach cops had no more legal rights than any ordinary citizen , and Shayne's pistol permit was just as good as theirs . 
He went swiftly up the sidewalk toward the parked car with the two Beach detectives in the front seat . 
He tugged the brim of his hat low as he approached , stepped out into the street just behind the car and strode around to the right-hand side . 
The big , paunchy man named Geely was on that side , half-turned in the seat toward his hatchet-faced companion so that his back partially rested against the closed door . 
Shayne turned the handle and jerked the door open before either of the men were quite aware of his presence in the night . 
Geely grunted and slid partly out , and Shayne's left arm snaked in around his neck to help him , while he set himself solidly on the roadway and swung his right fist to the big , gum-chewing jaw before Geely could straighten up . 
Shayne stepped back to let him slump to the ground , and then dived over him through the open door into Harris who was cursing loudly and trying to drag a gun from a shoulder holster , somewhat impeded by the steering wheel . 
Shayne locked his big hands around Harris' thin neck and dragged him out over the seat into the roadway . 
He hit him once on the sharp point of his chin and felt the body go limp . 
He dropped him into the street a couple of feet away from Geely's recumbent figure and stared down at both of them for a moment before kicking the big man lightly in the side . 
He didn't stir . 
They were both breathing heavily , out cold , and Shayne didn't think either of them had recognized him or could describe him . 
He got the pint of liquor out of his pocket and unscrewed the top , sprinkled the pungent stuff liberally over both men , and then tossed the open bottle in on the front seat . 
He turned , then , to look toward the lighted Boulevard , and saw Rourke's tall , emaciated figure come out of the lounge and hurriedly start to angle across the street toward the opposite side . 
Shayne strolled across to intercept the reporter in front of the two-story house where Felice Perrin lived , and asked casually , `` Get the police okay '' ? 
`` Sure . 
Said they'd have a patrol car here fast . 
Let's get inside . 
What happened with you '' ? 
`` Why the two damned fools got all excited when they saw the bottle , and knocked each other out cold '' , Shayne said good-humoredly . 
`` They'll have fun explaining that to the Miami cops . 
Got no business over here on a stake-out anyway '' . 
They went up onto a front porch and into a small hallway where a dim bulb burned high in the ceiling . 
A row of mailboxes along the wall had numbers and names on them . 
Shayne found one marked Perrin Aj . 
The stairway on the right was dark , but there was a wall-switch at the bottom which lighted another dim bulb at the top , and they went up . 
There were two front rooms , both dark behind their transoms , and there was no sound or light in the entire house to indicate that any of the occupants were awake . 
Eight , nine steps above him , Roberts had paused . 
Mickey paused with him , waiting , no longer impatient , trying now to think it out , do a little planning . 
He looked down over the banister at the hotel desk , with the telephone and pen set . 
If I could call in , they could check the story while we were on our way . 
I wouldn't have to tell them I had Roberts -- Then he heard it , like a muffled thud , felt a subtle change in air pressure . 
He glanced up in time to see Roberts hurtling down on him from above , literally flying through the air , his bloody face twisted . 
Mickey tried to flatten against the banister , gripped it with one hand , but Roberts' full weight struck him at that moment in the groin . 
He gasped for air and the impact tore his hand from the rail . 
He tumbled with Roberts , helpless and in agony , over and over , down the steps . 
By a wrenching effort , he managed to hunch and draw in , to take the final fall on his back and shoulders rather than his head . 
He was fuzzy in his mind and , for a moment , helpless on the lobby floor , but he was conscious , and free of the weight of Roberts' body . 
When his vision cleared he saw the taller one scrambling upward , reaching . 
Mickey was on his knees when Roberts turned on the stairs and the razor flashed in his hand . 
He felt his empty pocket and knew that Roberts had retrieved the only weapon at hand . 
Mickey's eyes fixed on the other's feet , which would first betray the moment and direction of an attack . 
He rose stiffly , forcing his knees to lock . 
The knifelike pain in his groin nearly brought him down again . 
He made himself back off slowly , his eyes wary on Roberts , who now had no more to lose than he . 
The pain dulled as he moved , and he steadied inside . 
After a moment he extended one hand , the fingers curled . 
`` Come on '' , he said . 
`` You want to be that big a fool -- I was hoping for this '' . 
Roberts brushed at his eyes with his free hand and started down the steps . 
He held the razor well out to one side . 
He was invulnerable to attack , but he could be handled , Mickey knew , if he could be brought to make the first move . 
They were eight feet apart when Roberts cleared the last step . 
Mickey waited with slack arms . 
`` Any time , Roberts '' , he said . 
`` Or would it be easier if I put my hands in my pockets '' ? 
The taunt was lost on Roberts . 
He advanced slowly , directly , giving no hint of a feint to either side . 
He was just short of arm's reach when he stopped . 
Mickey backed off two steps , forcing him to come on again . 
There was a fixed grin on Roberts' face , made hideous by the swollen nose and the smeared blood . 
Mickey backed off again and Roberts hesitated , then came along . 
They moved in a series of rhythmic fits and starts , a macabre dance -- two steps back , two steps forward , two steps back . 
Mickey felt his shoulders come up against the wall beside the heavy slab front door . 
This was going to be it now , any second , and what he had to remember was to keep his eye on the razor , no matter what , even if Roberts should feint with a kick to the groin , the deadly hand was his exclusive concern . 
The kick came , sudden and vicious but short . 
Mickey's guts twisted with the effort , but he kept his eye on the weapon . 
It moved in a silver arc toward his throat , then veered downward . 
He hunched his left shoulder into it and slashed at Roberts' forearm with his own , felt the blade slide off his sleeve . 
Before Roberts could move inside to cut upward toward his face , he slammed his right fist into Roberts' belly . 
Roberts sagged and slashed at him wildly . 
Ducking , Mickey tripped and fell to one side , landing heavily on the wood floor . 
Then Roberts was on him , gasping for breath and for a couple of seconds Mickey lost sight of the blade . 
He felt it rip at the side of his jacket and a momentary sting under his left ribs . 
He got a knee up into Roberts' belly , used both hands and heaved him clear , then scrambled to his feet . 
They were in the center of the lobby now . 
Still clutching the razor , Roberts came up into a crouch , shaking his head . 
When he charged Mickey was ready . 
He hit Roberts with his left fist in the ribs and the razor cut toward him feebly , then wobbled in mid-air . 
With his right fist , and nearly all his weight behind it , he smashed at the bloodstained face . 
Roberts careened backward , his back arched , fought for balance and , failing , stumbled against the newel post at the foot of the stairs . 
The sound of his head striking the solid wood was an ultimate , sudden-end sound . 
He fell on his side across the lowest step , rolled over once , then lay still . 
Mickey found himself leaning against the desk , with stiff hands , panting for breath . 
After a minute he went to Roberts , looked at one of his eyes and felt for a pulse . 
He couldn't feel any . 
Roberts appeared to be dead ; ; if not yet , then soon , very soon . 
Suddenly it was cold in the lobby . 
12 It seemed to him that a long time had passed before he decided what to do . 
Actually it was no more than eight or ten minutes , and the sum of his reasoning came to this : There's no way to take him in now and keep those other two -- Wister and the one who hired the two of them -- from finding out about Roberts and lamming out . 
The local law here would hold me till they check clear back home , and maybe more than that . 
They would have to . 
By then they could never catch up with the others . 
There's no other way ; ; I'll have to do it myself . 
He looked at where Roberts lay sprawled on the step . 
Mickey was sure now he was dead . 
One thing , he thought , nobody knows about it yet . 
Only me . 
He climbed the stairs , went into Roberts' room , found a suitcase and packed as much into it as he could . 
He left a few things . 
It didn't have to be perfect . 
Roberts was a wastrel . 
Walking away on impulse , he might logically leave behind what it was inconvenient to carry . 
When he had closed the suitcase he found a rag and moved about the room , wiping carefully everything he might have touched . 
It took him nearly an hour . 
He went to the room he had rented and got into his overcoat . 
He left the rest of his things and returned to the lobby . 
He set Roberts' suitcase near the front door , went outside and walked back to the garage . 
He was mildly surprised to find it was snowing . 
It snowed softly , silently , an undulating interruption of his vision against the night sky . 
He could feel it on his face and in his hair . 
He found the key to the Jeep , got it started and warmed it up for five minutes . 
Then he backed out and swung around to the front drive . 
He went into the hotel and searched till he found the razor . 
He put it in his own pocket for safekeeping . 
He took the suitcase out to the Jeep and put it in the front seat . 
Then he went back for Roberts . 
The body was heavier than he had anticipated . 
He got it onto his shoulder after some work and carried it outside and down to the Jeep . 
He dumped it into the back and made sure it wouldn't roll out , then returned to the porch and closed the front door , making sure it was unlocked . 
He drove carefully in the direction of the brief tour they had taken earlier . 
It snowed continuously , but quietly , evenly . 
When he reached the dip in the woods , he saw that already the earlier ruts were barely discernible . 
The Jeep fought its way through the low spot and got onto higher ground . 
He drove in low gear to the fork in the road and swung as close as possible to the entrance to the abandoned mine . 
He parked facing it and left the headlights on , but when he started into the tunnel with the suitcase , he found the illumination extended no farther than half a dozen feet into the passage . 
He went back and got the flashlight , returned to the tunnel and carried the suitcase to the edge of the pit he had found earlier . 
He tossed the bag into the pit and watched dry dust spray up around it . 
When the dust settled , he went back to the Jeep and carefully worked Roberts' body onto his shoulder . 
It wasn't like carrying the suitcase . 
The soft snow was deceitful underfoot . 
Twice he nearly fell . 
Inside the passage , he had to work his way over the fallen timber and nearly collapsed under his clumsy burden . 
By the time he reached the edge of the pit he was panting and his shoulder and back ached under the drag of the dead weight . 
He stood looking down for a few seconds , then backed up two or three paces from the edge . 
There was too much weight casually to toss it away . 
He could feel himself falling in with it and being unable to get out . 
It would be a bad place to die . 
It was a bad place for Roberts to wind up , but Roberts had asked for it . 
It was too late to worry about that . 
He knelt slowly and dumped the corpse onto the floor of the tunnel . 
It was a relief to get rid of the weight . 
He was shaking with tension and it took him a couple of minutes to get his breath and settle down . 
Then he got on his knees and rolled Roberts' body toward the edge . 
It hung momentarily on the point of dropping off . 
He gave it a strong push , heard it slide , then tumble dryly into the hole . 
He got to his feet and threw the flashlight beam into the pit . 
The body lay in an awkward sprawl twelve or fifteen feet below the level of the tunnel floor . 
Deep enough , he decided . 
There was little chance anyone would enter this shaft during the winter . 
The external signs of his approach to it would be covered by the snow , probably by the next day . 
It wasn't cold enough in the tunnel to preserve the body intact . 
By spring it would be a skeleton . 
He made his way back to the Jeep . 
He had started to back into the turn when he remembered the razor in his pocket . 
He climbed down , went back into the tunnel and tossed the razor into the pit . 
It landed on Roberts' sprawled right thigh , poised precariously , then slid off to the ground . 
He went back once more to the Jeep and started the short drive to the hotel . 
In the garage he checked the Jeep for signs of the use he had made of it . 
There were stains here and there and he cleaned them off , using an oiled rag he found on a nail . 
He wiped the steering wheel and all the places he might have touched the Jeep . 
He replaced the flashlight where it had been stowed , got into his own car and backed it out of the garage . 
There were tire marks where it had been , but they were overlapped by others and on the dusty floor would not be noticeable except under close scrutiny . 
Liz Peabody , he thought , might spend some time grieving for her lost lover , but he doubted that she would launch an investigation . 
He judged her to be a woman of some pride , though not much sense . 
Still she would probably have sense enough not to call in the local sheriff to find her boy friend who , apparently , had run away . 
He put in a call to Cunningham from his hotel room . 
The maid answered and he decided Nancy must be at work . 
Jeb cautioned him not to be too hopeful and then , ignoring his own advice , said excitedly , `` But it does sound good . 
A woman named Lisa who tells nobody anything about herself . 
That courtyard picture with the same initials '' . 
`` I'm not exactly jumping up and down with enthusiasm . 
I'll call you in a day or so '' . 
On the highway he relaxed and enjoyed the drive over Lake Pontchartrain and along the coast . 
Gulf Springs was ten miles inland -- more of a quaint old coast town than those along the beach made garish by tourist attractions . 
He checked into a motel and drove downtown . 
The courthouse was a white-stucco building minus the customary dome . 
Instead of the usual straggling privet hedges and patches of bare dirt in most small-town squares , the building was hemmed in by a semitropical growth of camellias and azaleas and a smooth lawn the improbably bright-green shade of florist's grass . 
He figured his best bet was a call on the sheriff . 
A clerk in the outer office took him in to Sheriff Carruthers , a big , paunchy man with thick , white hair and a voice with a senatorial resonance which suggested he should be running for higher office . 
Seated in front of the desk , Hank said , `` I'm looking for some information with very little to go on , Sheriff '' . 
He explained the background of the case , ending with the tenuous clue which had brought him to Gulf Springs . 
The sheriff's swivel chair tilted back . 
`` So you're looking for a woman who married a man who might have lived here a year ago and might have been poisoned . 
If there was such a person , I'm afraid she got away with it . 
Pity we don't know more about him . 
I think the best bet is to go through the society columns of last year and see if any of the grooms match with the obituaries a little later . 
It'll be a tedious job , but if you want to try it , the old newspaper files are in the basement here in the county supervisor's office '' . 
`` Maybe the society editor would remember a good-looking out-of-town bride '' . 
`` That's an idea . 
Mrs. Calhoun has been society editor here for twenty-five years . 
The editor says that marriages may be made in heaven , but weddings are made in Mrs. Calhoun's columns . 
She's the one who decides which wedding is to get the lead space in the Sunday paper and all that '' . 
He smiled . 
`` Once , when the editor was just out of the hospital from a gallstone operation , Mrs. Calhoun and the mother of the bride went out to his house and fought it out beside his bed . 
She'd be sure to remember any bride who was vague about background . 
She'd have made a great scientist dedicated to tracking down heredity and environment . 
She'd also remember if the groom died later '' . 
He stood up . 
`` I wish you good luck , but please don't dig up too tough a case for me this close to election . 
If you find out anything , come on back here and we'll get started on it '' . 
Tracking down Mrs. Calhoun was like trying to catch up with Paul Revere between Lexington and Concord . 
It turned out that she also sold real estate , cosmetics , and hospital insurance . 
The wearying trek stretched into the afternoon -- from newspaper plant to insurance office to her house and back to the newspaper , where he found her at five o'clock . 
She was a large woman with a frizzled gray poodle cut and a pencil clamped like a bit between her teeth while she hunted and pecked on an old typewriter . 
It took a couple of minutes to run through her various businesses and get down to the one he wanted . 
`` Last year ? 
Well , I do remember one . 
From Baton Rouge . 
Married a man named Vincent Black . 
I remember her because she didn't want her picture in the paper . 
First bride like that I've seen in twenty-five years '' . 
`` What reason did she give '' ? 
`` Said she had a breaking-out on her face -- some sort of allergy -- and none of her old pictures was good enough . 
I didn't see her till several days later at the wedding , and her face looked like it had never had a blemish on it . 
But , of course , you couldn't see too well through the veil '' . 
`` Was her name Lisa Carmody '' ? 
`` Now how in hell would I remember that '' ? 
`` Never mind . 
I can look it up . 
Do they still live here '' ? 
`` I think they moved away shortly after they were married . 
He was a salesman for something or other and must have been transferred . 
I'm sure it'll be in the files . 
We usually run a social note when somebody moves away '' . 
He stood up and thanked her . 
`` Have they inherited some money or something '' ? 
She asked with a reportorial gleam in her eye . 
He said vaguely , `` Well , it is a little legal matter , but nothing like that '' . 
He hurried across to the courthouse and caught the sheriff just as he was leaving . 
`` Sounds like what you're after '' , he said when Hank had finished . 
`` Come on , let's hurry down before they lock up for the day '' . 
In the basement the sheriff took him to a small , dingy office occupied by a tall , thin man informal in rolled-up shirt sleeves . 
`` Mr. Ferrell Hirey Lindsay , chairman of the board of supervisors . 
Mr. Ferrell is a private detective , Hirey . 
Wants to look up something in the newspaper files , so don't lock him in here '' . 
`` Sure '' , said Hirey . 
`` I'll just leave the door open . 
It latches when you close it , so stay as long as you like '' . 
Carruthers crossed the room to a metal door with an open grillework in the top half . 
He pulled it open . 
`` Now don't shut this door . 
It won't open from inside . 
Before we built the new jail , we used to keep prisoners in here overnight sometimes when the old jail got too crowded . 
Hirey treats himself a lot better than we do prisoners . 
They were a sight more comfortable than the ones in the jail with the cold air from Hirey's air conditioner coming through the grille '' . 
He walked past the sheriff into a windowless room with shelves full of big , leather-bound volumes from floor to ceiling all around the walls . 
A metal table and four chairs stood in the center . 
`` They're all here , back to 1865 '' , Carruthers told him . 
`` It's all right to smoke , but make sure your cigarettes are out before you leave . 
And , of course , you know not to take clippings '' . 
`` I'll leave the air conditioner on for you , Mr. Ferrell '' , said Hirey . 
`` Don't forget to turn it off and close the door good so it'll latch '' . 
Hank thanked them and promised to observe the rules . 
When they had gone , he stood for a minute breathing in the mustiness of old paper and leather which the busily thrumming air conditioner couldn't quite dispel . 
Chapter fourteen In a tour around the stacks , he found that the earliest volumes began on the left and progressed clockwise around the room . 
An old weakness for burrowing in records rose up to tempt him . 
It was , indeed , all here -- almost a century . 
From reconstruction to moon rockets . 
But he pulled away from the irrelevant old volumes and walked around to the newer ones . 
Last year's volume was at the top a couple of inches below the ceiling . 
Near it was a metal ladder on casters attached to the top shelf . 
He pulled it over , climbed up , and lifted out the big volume , almost losing his balance from the weight of it . 
He staggered over and dropped it on the table . 
Since Mrs. Calhoun remembered only that the marriage had been in the spring , he started to plod through several months . 
He tried to turn right to the society page in each one , but interesting stories kept cropping up to distract him . 
At last he found it in the paper of April 2 . 
It told him little more than Mrs. Calhoun had remembered , stating that it had been a small , modest wedding compared to some of the others . 
There was a marked contrast in the amount of information on bride and groom . 
Mr. Black's life was an open book , so to speak , from his birth in Jackson , Mississippi , through his basketball-playing days at L.S.U. and his attainment of a B.A. degree , which had presumably prepared him for his career as district sales manager for Peerless Business Machines . 
The one line on the bride said she was Miss Lisa Carmody from Baton Rouge . 
No mention of New Orleans . 
Hank was beginning to feel sharp concern for Mr. Black . 
If Mrs. Black was who he thought she was , Mr. Black's Peerless selling days might well be over . 
Now for their exodus from Gulf Springs . 
This time the search took twice as long , cutting down on his extra reading , for he had to pick through several columns of one- and two-line social notes in each issue . 
He found it in the edition of May 15 . 
The item said Mr. and Mrs. Black had moved to Jackson , his home town -- so the lovely Lisa had been with him a year ago . 
Next on his program was a call to the Jackson office of Peerless Business Machines to find out if Vincent Black was still with them -- or , more specifically , still with us . 
He glanced at his watch , saw it was only seven , and decided to indulge his weakness now . 
For the next hour he scrambled happily up and down the ladder , sharing the excitement of reporters who had seen McKinley's assassination , the Iroquois Theater fire in Chicago , and the Hall-Mills trial . 
In the middle of the stock market crash , he heard a slight noise in the outer office . 
He turned around , saw nothing , and decided it must be a mouse . 
Something else distracted him , yet there was no sound , only tomblike silence . 
Then he knew it was not sound , but lack of it . 
The air conditioner was no longer running . 
He jumped up and turned around to see the metal door closing . 
It clanged shut as he sprang toward it . 
He pressed his face against the grille . 
`` Who's there '' ? 
The light shining through the grille dimly illumined the office beyond -- enough for him to see there was no one there . 
Then he heard the outer door closing . 
`` Hey , come back '' , he shouted . 
He thought it must be some damn janitor or cleaning woman puttering around , figuring that Hirey had gone off and forgotten to turn off everything and lock up . 
Then the faint beginnings of fear stirred in his mind . 
Unless he was stone-blind , the person who'd just left couldn't have missed seeing Hank through the open door of the brightly lighted room . 
And even if he'd somehow missed seeing him , he wouldn't have gone off and left the light on and door open in the file room . 
Whoever it was had meant to shut him up in here , had followed him and waited till the courthouse and square were deserted . 
But why ? 
To search his room at the motel ? 
To come back later and kill him after the stores had closed around the square and everybody had left ? 
No , they could kill him just as easy right now . 
Nobody could hear what was going on in this underground vault . 
Then he heard it and smelled it -- the steady hissing , the dread , familiar pungency of gas escaping . 
It must be coming from an upright heater against the far wall in the supervisors' office . 
Until now , Lilac Gaylor and Lila Kingsley had been like an anagram which he could unscramble at his own pace and choosing . 
Except for those minutes in her room , he had lost touch with her as a reality . 
Gaylor's obsession and Cunningham's chimera-chasing reminiscences had mesmerized him into thinking of Lila and Lilac , separately or together , as a legend . 
They kept drifting apart and merging again in his mind like some minute form of life on a microscope slide . 
`` Well '' -- said Mr. Skyros . 
`` I take a little time to think it over '' . 
It was awkward : very awkward . 
There would be all the nuisance of contacting someone else to take over . 
Someone reasonably trustworthy . 
And Angie would hear about it . 
And Angie knew -- `` Time '' , said Angie , and he smiled very sweet and slow at Mr. Skyros . 
`` Not too much time , because I'll be needing some more myself pretty much right away . 
And I done favors for you , big favor not so long back , didn't I , and I'm right here to take on where Pretty left off . 
No trouble . 
I don't want no trouble , you don't want no trouble , nobody wants trouble , Mr. Skyros '' . 
Dear heaven , no , thought Mr. Skyros , turning away as another man came in . 
He straightened his tie at the mirror with a shaking hand ; ; the genial smile seemed painted on his face . 
Angie knew -- Speak of dangerous information ! 
Angie knew too much entirely already . 
Really he had Mr. Skyros at bay `` Big favor I done you . 
Acourse there's this deal o' Denny's -- and Jackie's -- kinda hangin' fire , ain't it , maybe you've been kinda worryin' over that . 
And can't say I blame you '' , said Angie thoughtfully . 
`` This deal with the ace o' spades . 
Anything to do with an ace o' spades , bad luck '' . 
Ace of spades -- a widow , that was what they called a widow , these low-class crooks remembered Mr. Skyros distractedly . 
All about that Angie knew , too . 
When things got a little out of hand , they very rapidly got a lot out of hand -- it seemed to be a general rule . 
All just by chance , and in a way tracing back to poor Frank , all of it , because naturally -- brothers , living together -- and Angie -- Mr. Skyros did not at all like the look on Angelo's regular-featured , almost girlishly good-looking face -- or indeed anything about Angelo . 
Mr. Skyros was not a man who thought very much about moral principles ; ; he found money much more interesting ; ; but all the same he thought now , uneasily , of the way in which Angelo earned his living -- and paid for his own stuff -- and eyed the soft smile , and the spaniel-like dark eyes , and he felt a little ill . 
`` Look , my friend '' , he said , `` in my life I learn , how is it the proverb says , better an ounce of prevention to a pound of cure . 
I stay in business so long because I'm careful . 
Two weeks , a month , we talk it over again , and maybe if nothing happens meanwhile to say the cops know this and that , then we make a little deal , isn't it '' ? 
`` That's a long while '' , said Angie . 
`` I tell you , you want to leave it that way , I don't fool around with it . 
I go over to Castro and get fixed up there . 
I can't wait no two weeks '' . 
And Mr. Skyros didn't like Angie , but what with Prettyman and three of his boys inside , and not likely to come out -- And Angie such a valuable salesman , Prettyman said -- All the nuisance and danger of getting in touch with practically a whole new bunch of boys -- Why did everything have to happen at once ? 
Denny said stupidly , `` Why , you ain't turning Angie down , are you , Mr. Skyros ? 
I mean , we all figured -- I guess anybody'd figure -- Angie '' -- Angelo gave him an affectionate smile . 
`` Mr. Skyros too smart a fellow want to get rid of me '' , he said . 
`` It's O.K. , Denny , everything's O.K. Ain't it , Mr. Skyros '' ? 
Oh , God , the name repeated over and over , anybody to hear -- Not being a fool , Mr. Skyros knew why . 
But aside from everything else , it would scarcely be pleasant to have dealings with one who was nominally an underling and actually held -- you could say -- the whip hand . 
And all because of Domokous ! 
If Mr. Skyros had dreamed of all the trouble that young man would eventually cause -- Of course , there was another factor . 
Angie worth his weight in gold right now , but these users , they sometimes went down fast . 
Who knew , Angie might not last long . 
The sweat broke out on Mr. Skyros' forehead as he realized he had been actually thinking -- hoping -- planning -- perhaps -- Good God above , had not Domokous been enough ? 
He patted Angelo's thin shoulder paternally . 
`` Now you don't want to go talking that way '' , he said . 
`` Sure , sure , you're the one take over for Pretty , soon as I get the supply , get started up again , isn't it ? 
You don't need worry , Angelo . 
I tell you , I know how it is with you , my friend , I sympathize , and I'll make it a special point -- a special favor -- get in touch , and get some stuff just for you . 
I don't know if I can manage it tonight or tomorrow , but I'll try my best , my friend . 
You see , you got to remember , we all got schedules , like any business ! 
My man , he won't be around a little while , he just fixed me up with this stuff they took out of the Elite . 
It's awkward , you see that , isn't it '' ? 
`` Well , that's your business , Mr. Skyros '' , said Angie , and his dreamy eyes moved past Mr. Skyros' shoulder to gaze vaguely out the ground-glass window . 
`` I appreciate it , you do that . 
Sure . 
We don't none of us want no trouble . 
I'm in a room over the Golden Club on San Pedro , you just ask for me there , you want see me . 
Or maybe I call you -- tonight ? 
About nine o'clock , I call and see if you got any . 
A couple decks for me , Mr. Skyros -- and ten-twelve to sell , see , I like to have a little ready cash '' . 
`` Oh , now , I don't know about that much '' , said Mr. Skyros . 
`` And you know , Angelo , Pretty , he always keeps it a strict cash basis , like they say '' -- `` Sure '' , said Angie . 
`` Sure , Mr. Skyros . 
Fifty a throw , that the deal ? 
Sure . 
I bring you the cash , say five hundred for ten decks . 
Never mind how much I cut it , how much I get '' , and he smiled his sleepy smile again . 
`` Standard deal , Mr. Skyros . 
You go 'n' have a look round for it '' . 
`` I do my best '' , said Mr. Skyros earnestly , `` just for you , my friend . 
This is awkward for everybody , isn't it , we all got to put up with inconvenience sometimes . 
But I do my best for you '' . 
He got out of there in a hurry , brushing past another man in the door , mopping his brow . 
The expedient thing -- yes , very true , one must make do as one could , in some situations . 
It could all be straightened out later . 
Not very much later , but when things had settled down a little . 
After this deal with the Bouvardier woman went through . 
An ace of spades . 
He was not a superstitious man , but he felt perhaps there was a little something in that , indeed . 
He rather wished he had never got into the business , and still -- scarcely to be resisted , a nice little profit with not much work involved , easy money Katya Roslev , who would be Katharine Ross so very soon now , rang up her first sale of the day and counted back the change . 
She did not notice that the customer seized her purchase and turned away without a smile or a word of thanks . 
Usually she marked the few who did thank you , you didn't get that kind much in a place like this : and she played a little game with herself , seeing how downright rude she could act to the others , before they'd take offense , threaten to call the manager . 
Funny how seldom they did : used to it , probably . 
The kind who came into a cheap store like this ! 
Grab , snatch , I saw that first ! 
And , Here , I'll take this , I was before her , you wait on me now or I don't bother with it , see ! 
This kind of place She'd be through here , just no time at all -- leave this kind of thing 'way behind . 
Off at noon , and she'd never come back . 
Never have to . 
Money -- a lot of money , enough . 
She'd be smart about it , get him to give it to her in little bills so's nobody would suspect -- maybe couldn't get it until Monday account of that , the banks -- But that wasn't really long to wait . 
Not when she'd waited so long already . 
No need say anything at all to the old woman . 
She had it all planned out , how she'd do . 
She'd say she didn't feel good on Sunday , couldn't go to church -- there'd be a little argument , but she could be stubborn -- and when the old woman had gone , quick pack the things she'd need to take , all but the dress she'd wear Monday , and take the bag down to that place in the station where you could put things in a locker overnight , for a dime . 
Then on Monday morning -- or it might have to be Tuesday -- get up and leave just the usual time , and last thing , put the money in an envelope under the old woman's purse there in the drawer . 
She wouldn't be going to get that for an hour or so after Katya had left , go do the daily shopping . 
No need leave a note with it , either -- or maybe just something like , Don't worry about me , I'm going away to make a better life . 
A better life . 
Escape . 
It wasn't as if she wanted much . 
She didn't mind working hard , not as if she figured to do anything wrong to live easy and soft -- all she wanted was a chance , where she wasn't marked as what she was . 
To be Katharine Ross , and work in a nicer shop somewhere , at a little more money so she could have prettier clothes , and learn ladies' manners and all like that , and get to know different people than up to now , not just the ones like her here , with foreign-sounding names , the ones went to the same church and -- Different place , different job , different people , she'd be all different too . 
Prettier , she'd do her hair another way ; ; smarter , and wear different kinds of clothes -- she'd be Katharine Ross , just what that sounded like . 
`` You've give me the wrong change '' , said the customer sharply . 
`` Think I can't count '' ? 
Katya made up the amount in indifferent silence . 
She was listening to other voices , out of the future . 
Some of those vaguely-imagined new , different people . 
Oh , Katharine's awfully nice , and pretty too , I like Katharine -- Let's ask Katharine to go with us , she's always lots of fun -- Katharine -- Soon , very soon now sixteen Mendoza didn't wake until nearly nine-thirty . 
It was going to be another hot day ; ; already the thermometer stood close to ninety . 
Alison was still sound asleep ; ; he made fresh coffee and searched through all the desk drawers for more cigarettes before thinking of her handbag , and found a crumpled stray cigarette at its bottom , which tasted peculiarly of face powder . 
He left a note propped on the desk asking her to call him sometime today , and drove home . 
After he'd got out fresh liver for Bast , he paused to look at her crouched daintily over her dish . 
Surely she was just a trifle fatter around the middle ? 
He seemed to remember reading somewhere that Abyssinians had large litters , and suffered a dismaying vision of the apartment overrun with a dozen kittens . 
`` Y que sigue despues ? 
-- What then '' ? 
He asked her severely . 
`` A lot of people are so peculiar that they don't like cats , it's not the easiest thing in the world to find good homes for kittens -- and , damn it , you know very well if I have them around long , impossible to give them away ! 
And I suppose now that you've finally grown up , if a little late , you'd go on producing kittens every six months or so . 
Yes , well , it's a pity to spoil your girlish figure -- which all those kittens would do anyway -- but I think when you've raised these we'll just have the vet fix it so there won't be any more . 
I wonder if the Carters would take one . 
And it's no good looking at me like that '' , as she wound affectionately around his ankles . 
Maude's long nose unexpectedly wrinkled up . 
`` Happened to be in the hall ! 
Happened to hear you quarrel about her ! 
Oh , well , you can't really blame Lolotte . 
She lost her beau to you '' . 
But she was talking of Emile when she saw the black line of the open door ; ; Sarah remembered it clearly . 
Maude went on . 
`` I've got to get busy . 
Miss Celie's taken to her bed , with the door locked . 
She opened it an inch and poked out the keys for me to give you . 
Here '' -- She thrust a bundle of keys strung on a thick red cord into Sarah's hand . 
`` Not that there's much use in locking up the smokehouse and the storehouse now . 
Drink your coffee '' -- coffee . 
`` It's -- cold '' . 
Maude suddenly looked quite capable of pouring it down her throat . 
`` I don't want it '' , Sarah said , firmly . 
`` Oh . 
Well -- I'll take it down with me as I go '' . 
Maude swooped up the cup and hiked up her top hoop as if about to take off with a racing start . 
At the door she turned back , her Roman nose looking very long now and satiric . 
`` I forgot . 
Ben and Lucien have gone after them . 
It's just like that book your Northern friend wrote -- except there aren't any ice floes to cross and no bloodhounds '' . 
`` I don't know Mrs. Stowe . 
What can they do if they find them '' ? 
`` They can't do anything . 
It's silly , childish , running after them like that . 
I told Ben so . 
But of course the paterollers won't be of any help , not with everything so upset and that Yankee cavalry outfit they say is running around , God knows where '' . 
She had swished away , she had been gone for a long time probably when Sarah suddenly realized that she ought to stop her , pour out the coffee , so no one would drink it . 
But then the so-called coffee was bad enough at best , cold it was all but undrinkable -- especially that cup ! 
She was deeply , horribly sure that Lucien had filled it with opium . 
She had quarreled with Lucien , she had resisted his demands for money -- and if she died , by the provisions of her marriage contract , Lucien would inherit legally not only the immediate sum of gold under the floorboards in the office , but later , when the war was over , her father's entire estate . 
She felt cold and hot , sticky and chilly at the same time . 
Now wait a minute , she told herself , think about it ; ; Lucien is not the only person in this house who could have put opium in that coffee . 
She had lost a bottle of opium -- but that was on the trip from New Orleans . 
Or someone had taken it during her first day at Honotassa . 
Yes , she had missed it after her talk with Emile , after dinner , just before Emile was shot . 
Rilly or Glendora had entered her room while she slept , bringing back her washed clothes . 
So somebody else could have come in , too -- then or later while she was out of the room . 
It would have been easy to identify as opium by its odor . 
It was not very reasonable to believe that Lucien had procured unprocurable opium and come back to Honotassa with a formed plan to murder her . 
He didn't even know that she was there . 
And he certainly couldn't have guessed that she would resist his demand for the gold or that she was not the yielding -- yes , and credible fool he had every right to expect . 
No , he had been surprised , unpleasantly surprised , but surprised . 
Then somebody else ? 
Don't question , Rev had said , don't invite danger . 
Her skin crawled : Lolotte had told Maude that she was in the hall and the door was open . 
Sarah had begun to tell Lucien of Emile , she had begun to question and a little draft had crept across the room from the bedroom door , open barely enough to show a rim of blackness in the hall . 
So Lolotte -- or anybody -- could have listened , and that somebody could have already been supplied with the missing bottle of opium . 
That was not reasonable either . 
The opium had disappeared before Emile's death and whoever shot him could not by any stretch of the imagination have foreseen Sarah's own doubts and suspicions -- and questions . 
She began to doubt whether there had been in fact a lethal dose of opium in the cup . 
So suppose somebody only wished to frighten her , so she would leave Honotassa ! 
That made a certain amount of logic . 
Added to the argument was the fact that while she might have tasted the coffee if it had been still hot , she might even have drunk some of it , she wouldn't have taken enough to kill her , for she would have been warned by its taste . 
No . 
It was merely an attempt to frighten her . 
She wouldn't go back to New York as Maude suggested ; ; she wouldn't run like a scared cat . 
But -- well , she'd be very careful . 
She dressed and the accustomed routine restored to her a sense of normal everyday life . 
But before she left her room she dug into her big moire bag , took out the envelope holding her marriage contract and the wax seal had been broken . 
So somebody else knew what would happen to her father's money if she died . 
Rev had known all along . 
Rev didn't need to break the wax seal , read the contract and find out . 
He could conceivably have wished to make sure ; ; Rev loved Honotassa , it was like a part of his breath and body ; ; Rev had stressed the need for money . 
Rev would never have tried to give her poison ! 
She thrust the envelope back in the bag ; ; there was no point in locking it up in the armoire now , it was like locking the barn after the horse was stolen . 
And in all likelihood , by now , there was more than one person in the house who knew the terms of her marriage contract . 
There was no point either in telling herself again what a fool she'd been . 
She went downstairs and received another curious shock , for when Glendora flapped into the dining room in her homemade moccasins , Sarah asked her when she had brought coffee to her room and Glendora said she hadn't . 
`` Too much work this morning , Miss Sarah -- everybody gone like that '' -- Sarah swallowed past another kind of constriction in her throat . 
`` Well , then who brought it '' ? 
`` Miss Maude . 
She come to the kitchen and say she take it up to you '' . 
Glendora put down a dish of lukewarm rice . 
`` Not much breakfast this morning . 
I don't know what we're going to do , Miss Sarah '' . 
`` We've got to eat '' , Sarah said , curtly , because a chill crawled over her again . 
Maude ? 
Glendora flapped away . 
The rice wasn't dosed with opium , indeed it had no taste at all , not a grain of salt . 
She ate what she could and went out along the covered passageway , with the rain dripping from the vines . 
In the kitchen Glendora was despairingly picking chickens . 
`` Get a basket '' , Sarah told her . 
`` We'll go to the storehouse '' . 
Glendora dropped a chicken and a flurry of feathers , and went with her through the drizzle , to the storehouse . 
Sarah found the right key and unlocked the door . 
It was a long , low room , like a root cellar , for it was banked up with soil , and vines had run rampant over that , too . 
It was dark but dry and cool . 
She doled out what Glendora vaguely guessed were the right amounts of dried peas , eggs , cornmeal , a little salt . 
The shelves looked emptier than when Miss Celie had shown her the storeroom , and since the men from the Commissary had called ; ; there were certainly now fewer mouths to feed but there was less to feed them with . 
She took Glendora to the smokehouse , unlocked it and saw with satisfaction there was still a quantity of hams and sides of bacon , hanging from the smoke-stained rafters . 
They wouldn't go hungry , not yet . 
And the fields were green and growing . 
`` Can't you possibly imagine what life is going to be like , here '' ? 
Maude had said . 
Maude . 
She sent Glendora back to the house , her basket and her apron laden . 
She stood for a moment , rain dripping from the trees over her head , thinking of Maude . 
Maude had the opportunity to take the bottle of opium from Sarah's room . 
Maude had the cool ruthlessness to do whatever she made up her mind to do . 
She couldn't see how her death could affect Maude . 
She couldn't see any reason why Maude would attempt to frighten her . 
Besides , there was something hysterical and silly , something almost childish about an attempt to frighten her . 
Maude was neither hysterical nor silly and Sarah rather doubted if she had ever been childish . 
Yet Maude had suggested that Sarah return to New York . 
Maude could have shot Emile -- if she'd had a reason to kill him . 
There was no use in standing there in the drizzle , trying to find a link between Emile's murder and opium in a cup of coffee . 
She started back for the house , saw a light in the office , opened the door and surprised a domestic little scene which was far outside the dark realm of murder or attempted murder . 
Rev , George and Lolotte were mending shoes . 
A lighted lamp stood on the table that dusky , drizzling day . 
They were all three bent over a shabby riding boot ; ; George had a tack hammer . 
Lolotte held a patch of leather , Rev steadied something , a tiny brad , waiting for George's poised hammer . 
George said , `` First thing I do when I get to Vicksburg again , is get me a Yankee '' -- `` With boots on '' , Lolotte laughed softly . 
Rev looked up and saw her . 
Lolotte looked up and stiffened . 
George didn't look up at all . 
There was no way to know , no way to guess whether any one of them was surprised at Sarah's appearance , believing her to be drugged and senseless -- and just possibly dead . 
Rev said , `` Come in , Sarah . 
Reckon you know the news '' . 
And what news , Sarah thought as satirically as Maude might have said it . 
Rev's face was suddenly a little fixed and questioning . 
He turned to George and Lolotte . 
`` Take your cobbler's shop somewhere else . 
I want to talk to Sarah '' . 
Everything in the office , the spreading circle of lamplight , the patch of leather in Lolotte's hands . 
George poised with the tack hammer , the homely , everyday atmosphere , all denied an attempt at murder . 
A rush of panic caught Sarah . 
`` No . 
Not now . 
I mean I've got to -- to see to the kitchen . 
Glendora '' -- Her words jumbled together and she all but ran from the office and from the question in Rev's face . 
Now why did I do that ? 
She thought as warm , drizzling rain touched her face . 
She was no schoolgirl , refusing to bear tales . 
As she reached the kitchen door the answer presented itself ; ; if she told anyone of the opium it must be Lucien , her husband . 
It might be , indeed it had already proved to be a marriage without love , but it was marriage . 
So she couldn't choose Rev as a confidant ; ; it must be Lucien . 
Always provided that Lucien himself had not dosed her coffee with opium , she thought , as coldly and sharply , again , as Maude might have said it . 
She paused at the kitchen door , caught her breath , told herself firmly that the opium was only an attempt to frighten her and went into the kitchen , where Glendora was eyeing the chickens dismally and Maude was cleaning lamp chimneys . 
Glendora gave a gulp . 
`` Miss Sarah , I can't cut up no chicken . 
Miss Maude say she won't '' . 
Again the homely , everyday details of daily living refuted a vicious attempt to frighten her -- or to murder her . 
The homely everyday details of living and domestic requirements also pressed upon her with their immediate urgency . 
No matter what had happened or hadn't happened , somebody had to see about dinner . 
She eyed the chickens with , if she had known it , something of Glendora's dismal look and thought with a certain fury of the time she had spent on Latin verbs . 
`` Not since last night . 
I didn't think there was any reason to '' . 
`` Maybe there isn't . 
Speak to him again anyway . 
Try talking to some of the fellows he works with , friends , anyone . 
Try to find out how happy he is with his wife , whether he plays around with women . 
You might try looking into his wife too . 
She might have been talking to some of her friends about her husband if they've been having any trouble '' . 
`` You think Black's the one we're looking for '' ? 
`` Yeah . 
I think he might be '' , Conrad said grimly . 
`` Then again he might not '' . 
`` What a stinking world '' , Rourke said . 
`` Black is Gilborn's best friend '' . 
`` I know '' . 
`` Will you be coming back soon '' ? 
`` I think so . 
I'm on my way to see the Jacobs woman '' . 
`` Gilborn's secretary ? 
What for ? 
You don't think Gilborn is the -- '' ? 
`` I don't think anything . 
I just don't want to go off half-cocked before picking up Black , that's all '' . 
Conrad interrupted . 
`` Gilborn says he was in his office all day with her yesterday . 
I'd like to make sure . 
Also , it's just possible she might know something about Mrs. Gilborn '' . 
`` Right . 
I'll see you later '' . 
`` Aren't you ever going to go home '' ? 
`` It sure as hell doesn't look like it , does it ? 
I'm telling you , if these corpses ever knew the trouble they put us to , they'd think twice before letting themselves get knocked off '' . 
`` Remember to tell that to the next corpse you meet '' . 
Conrad hung up and sat on the small telephone-booth bench , massaging his right leg . 
He looked at his watch . 
It was ten minutes before eleven . 
He wondered how long it would be before they had a signed confession from Lionel Black . 
Thirty years' experience let him know , even at this early stage , that Black was his man . 
But he still wanted to know why . 
It was a cold , windy day , the day after Kitti's death , but Stanley Gilborn paid no attention to the blustery October wind . 
After leaving Conrad , Gilborn had no destination . 
He simply walked , not noticing where he was , not caring . 
He stopped automatically at the street corners , waiting for the traffic lights to change , unheeding of other people , his coat open and flapping . 
As he walked , he tried to think . 
Of Kitti . 
Of himself . 
Mainly of what Conrad had tried to make him believe . 
There was nothing coherent about his thinking . 
It was a succession of picture-images passing through his mind : the same ones , different ones , in no apparent sequence , in no logical succession . 
The enormity of what Conrad had told him made it impossible for Gilborn to accept , with any degree of realism , the actuality of it . 
Conrad's words had intellectual meaning for him only . 
Emotionally , they penetrated him not at all . 
Whoever he was and your wife were intimate . 
Gilborn remembered Conrad's exact words . 
They made sense and yet they didn't . 
He knew Conrad had told him the truth . 
It was so . 
Yet it wasn't so . 
It wasn't so because it couldn't be so . 
When Kitti was alive -- and he remembered the pressure of her hand resting lightly on his arm -- she had been the center of his life . 
She was the sun , he the closest planet orbiting around her , the rest of the world existing and visible yet removed . 
For fifty-five years he had lived , progressing towards a no-goal , eating , working , breathing without plan , without reason . 
Kitti had come along to justify everything . 
She was his goal , she was his reason . 
He had lived all his life waiting for her . 
Not once , in the time that he had known her , had he ever considered the possibility , not once , not for one one-thousandth of a second , of her infidelity . 
He could not consider it now . 
Not really . 
And so he walked , aimless again . 
The walk ended , inevitably , right in front of his hotel building . 
The doorman began to nod his head automatically , then remembered who Gilborn was , what had happened to him the night before . 
He looked at Gilborn with undisguised curiosity . 
Gilborn passed by him without seeing him . 
He crossed the lobby and rode up in the elevator lost in his own thoughts . 
In the apartment itself , all was still . 
The police were no longer there . 
There was no evidence that anything was different than it had been . 
Except that Kitti wasn't there . 
Without taking off his coat , he sat in the blue chair which still faced the closed bedroom door . 
At last , sitting there , in the familiar surroundings , the truth began to sink in . 
Who ? 
He felt no anger towards Kitti , no sense that she had betrayed him . 
Who ? 
She was all he had , everything he had , everything he wanted . 
Someone had taken her away from him . 
Who ? 
Where there is a left-hand entry in the ledger , there is a right-hand one , he remembered from his school days . 
Where there is a victim , there is a killer . 
Who ? 
Whoever he was and your wife were intimate . 
He rose from the chair , took off his coat . 
Quickly , he went into the bedroom . 
The bed still showed signs of where Kitti had lain . 
Gilborn stood there for a long time . 
He looked at the bed unblinkingly . 
The bed was empty now . 
Kitti would lie in it no more . 
He would lie in it no more . 
Gilborn wondered whether Kitti had lain in that same bed with Who ? 
For thirty minutes , Stanley Gilborn stood there . 
At the end of the half-hour , racking his brains , thinking over and over again of Kitti , her friends , her past , he left the bedroom . 
Who ? 
He could think of no answer . 
Gilborn put on his coat again . 
Before leaving , he took one last , lingering look at the apartment . 
He knew he would never see it again . 
In the street , walking as quickly as he could , Stanley Gilborn was a lone figure . 
On Blanche Jacobs , Kitti Gilborn's death had a quite different effect . 
For Blanche , Kitti's death was a source of guilty , but nonetheless soaring , happy hope . 
In Blanche's defense , it must be said she was unaware of the newborn hope . 
If anyone had asked her , she would have described herself only as nervous and worried . 
The figures on the worksheet paper in front of her were jumping and waving around so badly it was all she could do to make them out clearly enough to copy them with the typewriter . 
She wondered whether Stanley would call . 
She wanted to be with him , to give him the comfort and companionship she knew he needed . 
She had skipped her lunch hour in the fear that he might call while she was out . 
He hadn't . 
And now she was feeling sick , both from concern about Stanley and hunger . 
Why hadn't he called ? 
Men , she reflected , even men like Stanley , are unpredictable . 
She tried to think of his unpredictable actions in the eleven years she had known him and discovered they weren't so many after all . 
Stanley really was quite predictable . 
That was one of the things she liked about Stanley . 
He wasn't like so many other men . 
The dentist last night , for instance . 
Dinner and the movies had been fine . 
He had taken her upstairs to say good night . 
She had invited him in for coffee . 
It was in the kitchen , as she was watching the kettle , waiting for the water to boil , that he had grabbed for her . 
Without warning , without giving her a chance to prepare for it . 
From behind , he had put his arms on her shoulders , turned her around , and pressed her to him , so close she couldn't breathe . 
Later , she apologized for the long scratch across his face , tried to explain she couldn't help herself , that the panic arose in her unwanted . 
But he hadn't understood . 
When he left , she knew she would never see him again . 
Stanley wasn't like that . 
She could always predict what Stanley was going to do , ever since she first met him . 
Except for that one morning . 
The morning he walked in to announce to her , blushing , that he was married . 
She thought she was going to die . 
She had assumed before then that one day he would ask her to marry him . 
Blanche couldn't remember when she had first arrived at this conclusion . 
She thought it was sometime during the second week she worked for Stanley . 
It was nothing that he said or did , but it seemed so natural to her that she should be working for him , looking forward to his eventual proposal . 
She was thirty-one years old then . 
Her mother was already considerably concerned over her daughter's future . 
But Blanche had been able to maintain a serene and assured composure in the face of her widowed mother's continued carping , had been able to resist her urgings to date anyone who offered the slightest possibility of matrimony . 
For Blanche , it was only a matter of time before Stanley would propose . 
It was to be expected that Stanley would be shy , slow in taking such a momentous step . 
Stanley went along in life , she knew , convinced that he deserved the love and faith of no woman . 
As a result , he never looked for it . 
But one day , she expected , he would somehow discover , without her having to tell him , that there was such a woman in the world ; ; a woman who was willing to give him love , faith , and anything else a woman could give a husband . 
Indeed , there was a woman who , unasked , had already given him love . 
Unquestionably , Blanche loved Stanley . 
And then , unexpectedly , Stanley made his announcement . 
On that first day , Blanche literally thought she was going to die , or , at the very least , go out of her mind . 
It might have been easier for her if Kitti Walker hadn't been everything that Blanche was not . 
Kitti was thirty years younger than Stanley , taller than Stanley , prettier than Stanley had any right to hope for , much less expect . 
Kitti could have married a score of men . 
There was no reason for her to marry someone like Stanley Gilborn , there was no need for her to marry Stanley . 
Kitti had come into the office , on somebody's recommendation , because she needed help in preparing her income tax return . 
Stanley had filled out the return and because , when he was finished , it was close to the lunch hour , he had politely asked Kitti to join him , never expecting her to accept . 
Blanche knew all this because the door to Stanley's office was open and , without straining too hard , she could hear everything that was said . 
Stanley had gone out , saying he would be back in an hour . 
He hadn't come back for over two . 
After that day , Blanche still didn't know exactly what had happened . 
There were mornings when Stanley came in late , afternoons when he left early , days when he didn't come in at all . 
Blanche knew something must be causing Stanley's new , strange behavior but she never once connected it with Kitti Walker . 
It was too unprecedented . 
Then , six weeks after the day Kitti first came into the office , Stanley announced he and Kitti were married . 
Somehow , Blanche managed to cover the stunned surprise and offer her congratulations . 
That night the two of them left for a week's honeymoon in Acapulco . 
While they were away Blanche came into the office every morning , running things as she had always run them for Stanley , going through the week in a dazed stupor , getting things done automatically , out of habit . 
For exactly one week , she was able to continue in this manner . 
On the morning of Stanley's return , however , her strength left her . 
Two hours of watching his serenely happy face , listening to his soft humming as he bent over his penciled figures , and Blanche had to leave . 
She stayed away for ten days . 
Those ten days were like no others that Blanche had known . 
Mostly , she stayed in bed . 
She didn't tell anyone , even her mother , what was wrong . 
She refused to have a doctor , insisting there was nothing a doctor could do for her . 
`` Right '' , said the fingerprint man . 
`` Also , if you're going to believe those prints , you'll have to look for a killer who's a top-grade piano player '' . 
He demonstrated by playing an imaginary piano , doing a staccato passage with a broadly exaggerated attack . 
To make it clearer he shifted to acting out , but with no change of manner , the killing of Rose Mallory . 
His hands snatched at an imaginary bucket , swooping down hard to grab it and coming away with equal snap like a ball that's been bounced hard . 
In the same way he pantomimed grasping a mantel and bouncing cleanly off that , pressing his hands against the floor and bouncing cleanly off that . 
He was moving like a ballet dancer , playing for laughs . 
If Rose Mallory's killer acted this way , catching up with him was going to be a cinch . 
We'd know him by his stretch pants and the flowers he'd wear twined in his hair . 
Perhaps if Felix had first come upon us when this boy was not cavorting so gaily up and down the hall outside the murdered woman's apartment , we might have had less trouble convincing Felix of our seriousness . 
This , you will remember , was still New Year's Day . 
By the time Felix turned up it was early afternoon , which , one would think , would be late enough so that by then , except for small children and a few hardy souls who had not yet sobered up , it could have been expected that people would no longer be having any sort of active interest in the previous night's noisemakers and paper hats . 
Felix was the exception . 
He had retained his hat and his horn , and , whatever fun might still be going , he was ready to join it . 
That , incidentally , might give you some idea of what Felix was like . 
After all , he hadn't happened upon us in that second-floor hall without warning . 
The M.E.'s boys had finished their on-the-spot examination and the body had been removed for autopsy . 
The meat wagon , therefore , was not out in front of the house any more , but the cluster of squad cars was still there and there was a cop on the door downstairs to screen any comings and goings . 
There was , furthermore , the crowd of curious onlookers gathered in the street and a couple more cops to hold them at a decent distance . 
Just put yourself in Felix's place for a moment . 
You're a taxpayer , householder , landlord . 
You've been away from home for the New Year festivities , but now the party is over and you come home . 
Defining sobriety in the limited sense of being free from the clinical symptoms of the effects of alcohol ingested and not yet eliminated from the system , you are sober . 
You still have your paper hat and you're wearing it , but then , it is an extraordinary paper hat and , in addition to anything else you may be , you are also the sculptor who created that most peculiar dame out in the back yard . 
It's not too much to assume that you will have a more lasting interest in paper hats than will Mr. Average Citizen . 
You have your paper horn clutched in your big , craggy fist , and for your entrance you have planned a noisy , colorful and exuberant greeting to your friends and tenants . 
You find your house a focus of public and police attention . 
Can you imagine yourself forgetting under the circumstances that you are approaching this startling and unexpected situation so unsuitably hatted and armed with a paper horn ? 
Maybe one could be startled into forgetfulness . 
You shoulder your way through the cluster of the curious and you barge up to the cop on the door . 
You identify yourself and ask him what's going on . 
Instead of answering you , he sticks his head in the door and shouts up the stairs . 
`` Got the upstairs guy '' , he bellows . 
`` The owner . 
Do I send him up '' ? 
Then he turns back to you . 
`` Go on in '' , he says . 
`` They'll tell you what's cooking '' . 
Even then , as you go into the house oppressed by the knowledge that something is cooking and that your house has passed under this unaccountable , official control , could you go on forgetting that you still had that ridiculous hat on your head and you were still carrying that childish horn in your hand ? 
What I'm getting at is that we were fully prepared for Felix's being an odd one . 
We'd seen his handiwork out in the back yard , and the little his tenants had told us of him did make him sound a little special . 
We were not , however , prepared for anything like the apparition that confronted us as Felix came up the stairs . 
He , of course , must have been equally unprepared for what confronted him , but , nonetheless , I did find his reaction startling . 
If Felix was still wearing the hat and carrying the horn because he'd forgotten about them , he now remembered . 
He came bounding up the stairs and joined the dance . 
He adjusted the hat , lifted the horn to his lips as though it were a flute , and fell in alongside our fingerprint expert to cavort with him . 
Our man stopped dead and glowered at Felix . 
Felix threw his head back and laughed a laugh that shook the timbers of even that solidly built old house . 
This was a bull of a man . 
He was big-chested , big-shouldered and heavy-armed . 
His face was ruddy and heavy and unlined , and when he laughed he showed his teeth , which were big and white and strong and unquestionably home-grown . 
I don't remember ever seeing teeth that were quite so white and at the same time quite so emphatically not dentures . 
His hair had receded most of the way to the back of his neck . 
He had only a fringe of hair and he wore it cropped short . 
It was almost as white as his teeth . 
For a man of his mass he was curiously short . 
He wasn't a dwarf but he was a bit of a comic figure . 
A man with so big and so staggeringly developed a torso and such long and powerful arms is expected to stand taller than five feet five . 
For Felix it was a bit of a stretch to make even that measurement . 
The man was just this side of being a freak . 
We waited till he had finished laughing , and that gave us a few moments for taking stock of him . 
He was dressed in a manner Esquire might suggest for the outdoor man's country weekend . 
Dark gray sports jacket , lighter gray slacks , pink flannel shirt , black silk necktie . 
His eyes were clear . 
He was freshly shaved , and if there had been any alcohol in him we could never have missed detecting some scent of it on the massive gusts of his laughter . 
Not even a whiff . 
Eventually he subsided . 
`` Felix '' ? 
Gibby said . 
`` Me '' , he said merrily . 
`` Me , the happy one '' . 
`` That much Latin we remember '' , Gibby said dryly . 
`` You always live up to your name , always like this , always making happy '' ? 
`` I try '' , Felix said blithely . 
`` The world is full of blokes who put their hearts into making the tragic scene . 
I've never noticed that it improves things any '' . 
`` Bully for you '' , Gibby said . 
`` What's the rest of your name '' ? 
`` No rest of it . 
Felix is all there is '' . 
`` All there ever was '' ? 
`` The past I leave to historians '' , Felix intoned , demonstrating that he could be pompous as well as happy . 
`` You live in the present '' ? 
`` In the present '' , Felix proclaimed . 
`` For the future . 
Is there any other time in which a man can live '' ? 
`` We '' , Gibby announced , `` are not philosophers . 
We are Assistant District Attorneys . 
This gentleman is a police officer . 
He is a fingerprint specialist . 
Could your future , your immediate future , be made to include taking us upstairs , giving us a bit of space in which our friend can work , and making available to him your finger tips '' ? 
The happy one could never have looked happier . 
This was more than joy . 
It was ecstasy . 
`` Those lovely whorls '' , he chortled . 
`` So intricate , so beautiful . 
Come right along . 
I love fingerprints '' . 
He was prancing along the hall , heading for the next flight of stairs . 
Gibby called him back . 
`` We're here because of what happened last night '' , he said . 
`` Past , yes , but important . 
Since it is important , for the record let's have the full name '' . 
`` That important '' ? 
Felix asked . 
`` That important '' . 
`` Grubb '' , Felix whispered . 
`` Felix Grubb '' ? 
Gibby asked , not bothering to whisper . 
`` Shh '' , Felix implored . 
`` I can't see what would make it necessary for you to know . 
Nothing could make it necessary to proclaim it to the whole world '' . 
Obligingly Gibby lowered his voice . 
`` Felix Grubb '' ? 
He repeated . 
`` No . 
Edmund , but not for years . 
For years it's been just Felix . 
First thing I did after my twenty-first birthday was go into court and have it officially changed , and this is something I don't tell everybody . 
That was almost forty years ago '' . 
Having volunteered that he was a man of about sixty , he bounded up the stairs and with each leap rendered the number less credible . 
This was a broth of a boy , our Felix , and nothing was more obvious than the joy he took in demonstrating how agile he was and how full of juice and spirit . 
We followed him up the stairs . 
The cops would gather up Connor and the foursome on the third floor and bring us those of them who would voluntarily submit to fingerprinting . 
You may think we didn't need Nancy and Jean , but you always get what you can when you can , and we had no guarantee that a fingerprint record on them couldn't be useful before we were through with this case . 
Also , if we had excluded the ladies we would have to that extent let the whole world know at least that much of where we stood . 
The killer , if in our present group , would certainly be interested in knowing that much , and even though with the fingerprint evidence what it was I could see no way he could use this bit of information to improve on his situation , there might always be some way . 
If you can possibly avoid it , you don't hand out any extra chances . 
Felix took us into his studio . 
It was that oddly shaped space at the very top of the house , where ceiling heights had to accommodate themselves to the varying angles of roof slope . 
At each angle of its pitch a big skylight had been fitted into the roof and all these skylights were fitted with systems of multiple screens and shades . 
When Felix first opened the door on it , all these shades were tightly drawn and the whole studio was as dark as night . 
He quickly fixed that , rolling back the shades on some of the skylights and adjusting screens on the others . 
He flew about the place making these adjustments and it was obvious that what he was doing was the fruit of long experience . 
None of his movements was tentative . 
There was no process of trial and error . 
Starting with the room completely blacked out , as it was when we came in , he unerringly fixed things so that the whole place was bathed in the maximum of light without at any point admitting even so much as a crack of glare . 
Expecting something more-than-average wacky , I was surprised by what we found . 
There was no display of either works in progress or of finished work . 
Here and there on work table or pedestal stood a shape with a sheet or a tarpaulin draped over it . 
These shapes might have been mad , but there was no telling . 
They were all completely shrouded . 
The equipment was solid and heavy and in good condition . 
Everything was orderly and it seemed to be arranged for the workman's comfort , convenience and efficiency . 
There were tools about but they were neatly kept . 
There was no confusion and no litter . 
Supplies of sheet metal were neatly stacked in bins . 
Andy did not see the newspapers the next day . 
Someone on his staff -- he suspected it was Ed Thornburg -- intercepted them and for this Andy was grateful . 
He finally fell asleep around six in the morning with the aid of a sleeping capsule , a crutch he rarely used , and didn't awaken until early afternoon . 
Memory flooded him the instant he opened his eyes and the sick feeling knotted his stomach . 
Outside his window bloomed a beautiful summer day . 
Presumably the same sun was shining upon little Drew also , and those who had kidnapped him . 
But where ? 
It was still a very big world , despite all the modern cant to the contrary . 
Hub was sitting in a chair that blocked the hall door . 
He was dozing , perhaps the only sleep he'd gotten . 
He snapped to alertness at Andy's entrance . 
`` Sorry , Mr. Paxton . 
Nothing new . 
Lot of people waiting to see you , though '' . 
`` Reporters '' ? 
`` Our own people . 
Questions about the show tonight '' . 
Hub picked up the telephone . 
`` Shall I let them know you're awake '' ? 
`` I suppose . 
How's Lissa , do you know '' ? 
Hub considered . 
`` Some better . 
She's got plenty of guts , Mr. Paxton . 
You want me to call her '' ? 
`` She expecting me to '' ? 
Hub shook his head so Andy told him not to bother . 
The only reason for contacting Lissa was to comfort or to be comforted . 
He could not manage the former or expect the latter ; ; they had nothing to give to each other . 
The omission might look peculiar to outsiders , but Andy could not bring himself to go through the motions simply for the sake of appearances . 
He had little time to himself , anyway . 
As the afternoon sped toward evening , the suite saw a steady procession of Paxton aides pass in and out , each with his own special problem . 
Thornburg arrived with the writers . 
They had spent the morning revising the act , eliminating all the gay songs , patter and dancing with a view of the best public relations . 
What remained lacked the original verve but it was at least dignified , as befitting the tragic circumstances . 
Raymond Fox reported that the orchestra had hastily rehearsed `` Cradle Song '' in case it was needed . 
Charlie Marble was back and forth on several occasions , first to confer with Andy on the advisability of cancelling the Las Vegas engagement -- they decided it was wise -- and later to announce that a prominent comedian , also an agency client , had agreed to fill the casino's open date . 
And once Bake slipped in , pale and drawn , last night's liquor still on his breath with some of today's added to it . 
He asked if there was anything he could do . 
Andy invented a job to keep him busy , sending him ahead to El Dorado to supervise last minute arrangements . 
But from Rocco Vecchio , they heard nothing . 
At last it was time to depart . 
Hub , nosing about , spotted reporters in the lobby , so Andy was hustled away quietly through the hotel's service entrance in a strange car which Hub had procured somewhere . 
They succeeded in eluding the curious at the hotel , but there was no chance of avoiding them at the nightclub . 
El Dorado was surrounded by a mob . 
They overflowed the parking lot , making progress by automobile difficult . 
Long before he reached the protection of the stage door , Andy was recognized . 
Word of his arrival spread through the crowd like a brushfire . 
They surged around him , fingers pointing , eyes prying . 
It was not a hostile gathering but Andy sensed the difference from last night's hero-worshippers . 
They had come not to admire but to observe . 
`` It's worse inside '' , Thornburg informed Andy . 
`` Skolman's jammed in every table he could find . 
Under the heading of it's an ill wind , et cetera '' . 
Backstage was tomblike by contrast . 
Andy's co-workers kept their distance , awed by the tragedy . 
But in his dressing room was a large bouquet and a card that read , `` We're with you all the way '' . 
It was signed by everyone in the troupe . 
Andy couldn't help but be touched . 
He instructed Shirl Winter to compose a note of thanks to be posted on the call board . 
Bake was waiting to report that Lou DuVol had been sobered up to the point where he could function efficiently . 
Andy gathered that this had been no small accomplishment . 
Bake himself looked better ; ; any kind of job was better than brooding . 
Andy told him , `` Bake , I wish you'd talk to Skolman , see if some kind of p. a. system can be rigged up outside . 
It's just barely possible with this crowd that the kidnapper wasn't able to get a table . 
I wouldn't want him to miss the message '' . 
`` I'll try . 
Skolman isn't going to like it much , though , giving away what he should be selling '' . 
Skolman wasn't the only one who didn't care for Andy's scheme . 
A short time later , Lieutenant Bonner stomped into the dressing room . 
`` I got a bone to pick with you , Mr. Paxton . 
It's those damn loudspeakers '' . 
Andy rolled up the revised script he had been studying . 
`` What about them '' ? 
`` They're going to louse me up good . 
My men have been here all afternoon , setting up for this thing '' . 
Bonner explained that , with the nightclub's cooperation , the police had occupied El Dorado like a battlefield . 
Motion picture cameras had been installed to film the audience , the reservation list was being checked out name by name , and a special detail was already at work in the parking lot scrutinizing automobiles for a possible lead . 
However , it was virtually impossible to screen the mob outside , even if Bonner had manpower available for the purpose . 
`` I want you to have the speakers taken out '' . 
Andy sighed . 
`` Seems like we're never going to see eye to eye , Lieutenant . 
Didn't they tell you what I wanted the p. a. system for '' ? 
`` Sure , I know . 
But it's such a long shot '' -- `` No longer than yours . 
What do you expect to get tonight , anyway ? 
You think somebody is going to stand up in the audience and make guilty faces ? 
Or have a sign on his car that says , ' Here Comes the Paxton Kidnapper ' '' ? 
Andy crumbled the script in his fist . 
`` I can't stop you from doing what you think is right . 
But don't try to stop me , either '' . 
`` Someday '' , Bonner said , `` you're going to ask us for help . 
I can hardly wait '' . 
`` What you don't understand is that I'm asking for it now '' . 
But Bonner departed , still full of ill will . 
He had gotten stuck with a job too big for his imagination ; ; he had to cling to routine , tested procedures . 
To act otherwise would be to admit his helplessness . 
But , admit or not , Bonner was helpless . 
The crime showed too much planning , the kidnappers appeared too proficient to be caught by a checklist . 
Andy's performance was scheduled for eleven o'clock . 
He stalled for a half-hour longer , hoping to hear something from Vecchio about the ransom money . 
Bake and Shirl Winter , on separate telephones , could not reach him at any conceivable location in Los Angeles , nor could they secure any clear-cut information regarding his efforts . 
Bake cursed . 
`` The sweaty bastard's probably halfway to Peru with our money by now '' . 
When no one smiled , he felt constrained to add , `` Just kidding , natch '' . 
Thornburg popped in to advise , `` Andy , Skolman's sending up smoke signals . 
You about ready '' ? 
`` What's he complaining about '' ? 
Bake asked . 
`` They're drinking , aren't they '' ? 
`` No . 
We got a bunch of sippers out there tonight . 
I guess nobody wants to pass out and miss anything '' . 
Thornburg added in a lower voice but Andy overheard , `` They act more like a jury than an audience '' . 
Andy said , `` Well , I guess we can't wait any longer . 
Hub , you stick by the stage door . 
If Rock shows up during the number -- or you hear anything -- give me the signal '' . 
Shirl Winter said , `` I'll stay on the phone , Mr. Paxton . 
There's a couple of call-backs I can work on '' . 
`` You're a sweetheart -- but leave one line open . 
He may try to phone us '' . 
Andy passed into the corridor , their `` good lucks '' ! 
Following him . 
It was what they said before every performance but tonight it sounded different , as if he really needed it . 
They were right . 
The act , cut to shreds and hastily patched together during the afternoon , had not been rehearsed sufficiently by anyone . 
The result had nothing of the polish , pace or cohesion of the previous night . 
Here's where luck would normally step in . 
But this was no ordinary show and Andy knew it . 
Whether he sang well or badly had nothing to do with it . 
The audience had come not to be entertained but to judge . 
Twenty-four hours had changed him from a performer to a freak . 
Within this framework , what followed was strained , even macabre . 
Eliminating the patter and the upbeat numbers left little but blues and other songs of equal melancholy . 
The effect was as depressing as a gravestone , the applause irresolute and short-lived . 
Yet Andy plowed ahead , mouthing the inconsequential words as if they possessed real meaning , and gradually his listeners warmed to him . 
Their clapping grew more fervent ; ; the evening was still not beyond salvaging , not as a show but for him as a person . 
The worst was yet to come . 
As Andy reached the finale of his act , a subdued commotion backstage drew his attention to the wings . 
Rocco Vecchio -- a perspiring , haggard Vecchio -- was standing there , flanked by two men in the uniforms of armored transport guards . 
Vecchio was nodding and pointing at the large suitcase he held . 
Andy felt his heart thud heavily with relief . 
He waved at Fox to cut off the finale introduction . 
The music died away discordantly . 
He drew a deep breath . 
`` Ladies and gentlemen , in place of my regular closing number tonight , I'd like to sing something of a different nature for you . 
Ray , if you please -- the ' Cradle Song ' '' . 
He sensed rather than heard the gasp that swept across the audience . 
Nor could he blame them . 
This particular song at this particular time could only be interpreted as the ultimate in bad taste , callous exploitation beyond the bounds of decency . 
Having no choice , he plunged into it , anyway , holding onto the microphone for support . 
`` Lullaby and goodnight . 
'' His voice shook . 
For the first time in his life he forgot the lyrics midway through and had to cover up by humming the rest . 
He wondered if the audience would let him finish . 
They did ; ; though contemptuous , they were still polite . 
But when he was finally through , their scorn was made apparent . 
Someone clapped tentatively then quickly stopped . 
Otherwise , the silence was complete . 
As the lights came up , Andy could see that a number of patrons were already on their way toward the exit . 
He stumbled off-stage . 
`` My God '' , he muttered . 
`` My God '' . 
Hub was there to support him . 
`` It's okay , Mr. Paxton . 
The money's here , all of it '' . 
At this moment , all he could think of was what he'd been forced to undergo . 
`` Did you hear them ? 
Do you know what they think of me '' ? 
`` Bunch of damn jerks '' , Hub growled . 
`` Who needs them '' ? 
Thornburg patted his arm . 
`` Sure , Andy , it'll be all right . 
Nothing broken that can't be mended '' . 
The words were hollow . 
Thornburg knew , better than any of them , that a public image was as fragile as Humpty Dumpty . 
All the king's horses and all the king's men Vecchio shouldered in . 
`` I got it , Andy . 
God knows how , but I got it . 
You'll never believe the places I've been today . 
I practically had to sign your life away , you'll probably fire me for some of the deals I had to go for , but '' -- Andy nodded dully . 
`` It doesn't matter , Rock . 
We've done our part '' . 
He clutched that knowledge to him as he returned to his dressing room . 
The usual congratulatory crowd was conspicuously absent ; ; the place had the air of a morgue . 
Andy had no desire to linger himself but Hub reported that the mob outside was still large despite the efforts of the police to disperse them . 
His son watched until he got as far as the hall , almost out of sight , then hurried after . 
`` Dad . 
Dad , wait '' . 
He caught up with the old man in the living room . 
Old man Arthur had put down the suitcase to open the front door . 
`` Just this one favor , Dad . 
Just don't tell Ferguson that crazy opinion of yours '' . 
`` Why not '' ? 
The old man gave the room a stare in leaving ; ; under the scraggly brows the pale old eyes burned with a bitter memory . 
`` It's the truth '' . 
`` The Bartlett girl was killed by Mr. Dronk's son . 
Rossi and Ferguson have been across the street , talking to the kid . 
They've found some sort of new evidence , a bundle of clothes or something , and it must link the kid even stronger to the crime . 
Why won't you accept facts ? 
The two kids were together a lot , they were having some kind of teen-age affair -- God knows how far that had gone -- and the kid's crippled . 
He limps , and the man who hit you and took the cane , he limped . 
My God , how much more do you want '' ? 
His father looked him over closely . 
`` You sound like an old woman . 
You should have gone to work today , 'stead of sneaking around spying on the Dronk house '' . 
`` Now , see here '' -- `` The trouble with you '' , old man Arthur began , and then checked himself . 
Young Mrs. Arthur had opened the oven and there was a drifting odor of hot biscuits . 
The old man opened the door and stepped out into the sunlight . 
`` Isn't enough time to go into it '' , he finished , and slammed the door in his son's face . 
Mrs. Holden turned from the window draperies . 
`` They found something else up there '' , she said half-aloud to the empty room . 
`` They took it away , overalls or something '' . 
She walked restlessly across the room , then back to the windows . 
`` Now they've gone , they didn't come back , and they didn't arrest that Dronk boy '' . 
She stood frowning and chewing her lip . 
She was wearing a brown cotton dress , cut across the hips in a way that was supposed to make her look slimmer , a yoke set into the skirt and flaring pleats below . 
She smoothed the skirt , sat down , then stood up and went back to the windows . 
`` Why on earth did I send him off to work ? 
There was excuse enough to keep him home that young Mr. Arthur's still over there '' . 
With sudden energy , she went to the phone and rang Holden's office and asked for him . 
`` I think you had better come home '' . 
`` Mae , we're so busy . 
Mr. Crosson's been on everybody's neck , an order he expected didn't come through and he's '' -- `` I don't care . 
I want you here . 
I'm all alone and certain things are going on that look very ominous . 
I need someone to go out and find out what's happening '' . 
`` But I couldn't do that , even if I were home '' ! 
His voice grew high and trembling . 
`` I can't be underfoot every time those cops turn around ! 
They'll they'll think I did something '' . 
He couldn't see the grin that split her mouth ; ; the teeth that shone into the phone were like a shark's . 
`` You'll just have to risk it . 
You can't wander along in the dark , can you ? 
I'd think that you even more than I would be wondering what they're up to . 
They found some clothes '' , she tossed in . 
`` What '' ? 
Deliberately , she ignored the yelp . 
`` Also , that Mr. Ferguson was here . 
I guess he wants to ask you some questions . 
I stalled him off . 
He doesn't expect you until five '' . 
`` Then I'd better wait until five '' . 
`` No-o-o . 
Come home right away '' . 
She slapped the receiver into its holder and stepped away . 
Her eyes were bright with anticipation . 
In his office , Mr. Holden replaced the phone slowly . 
He rose from his chair . 
He had to cough then ; ; he went to the window and choked there with the fresh breeze on his face . 
He got his hat out of the closet . 
For a moment he thought of going into Crosson's office to explain that he had to leave , but there was now such a pain in his chest , such a pounding in his head , that he decided to let it go . 
He passed the receptionist in the outer office , muttering , `` I've got to go out for a little while '' . 
Let her call Crosson if she wanted to , let Crosson raise the roof or even can him , he didn't care . 
He got into the car . 
Putting the key into the switch , pressing the accelerator with his foot , putting the car into reverse , seemed vast endeavors almost beyond the ability of his shaking body . 
Once out in the street , the traffic was a gadfly maze in which he wandered stricken . 
When he turned into the highway that led to the outskirts of the city and then rose toward home , he had to pull over to the curb and wait for a few minutes , sucking in air and squinting and blinking his eyes to clear them of tears . 
What on earth was in Mae's mind , that she wanted him up there spying on what the cops were doing ? 
What did she think he could do ? 
He tried to ignore what his own common sense told him , but it wasn't possible ; ; her motives were too blatant . 
She wanted him to get into trouble . 
She wanted the police to notice him , suspect him . 
She was going to keep on scheming , poking , prodding , suggesting , and dictating until the cops got up enough interest in him to go back to their old neighborhood and ask questions . 
And he knew in that moment , with a cold sinking of despair , a dying of old hopes , that Mae had spread some kind of word there among the neighbors . 
Nothing bald , open ; ; but enough . 
They'd have some suspicions to repeat to the police . 
Though his inner thoughts cringed at it , he forced himself to think back , recreating the scene in which Mae claimed to have caught him molesting the child . 
It hadn't amounted to anything . 
There had been nothing evil or dirty in his intentions . 
A second scene flashed before his mind , the interior of the garage at the new house and the young Bartlett girl turning startled to meet him , the dim dark and the sudden confusion and fear and then the brightness as Mae had clicked on the light . 
Suppose the cops somehow got hold of that ? 
Well , it hadn't been what it seemed , he'd had no idea the girl was in there . 
He hadn't touched her . 
And when he came to examine the scene , there was a certain staginess to it , it had the smell of planning , and a swift suspicion darted into his mind . 
Too monstrous , of course . 
Mae wouldn't have plotted a thing like that . 
It was just that little accidents played into her hands . 
Like this murder . 
He leaned on the wheel , clutching it , staring into the sunlight , and tried to bring order into his thoughts . 
He felt light-headed and sick . 
There was no use wandering off into a territory of utter nightmare . 
Mae was his wife . 
She was married to him for better or for worse . 
She wouldn't be wilfully planning his destruction . 
But she was . 
She was . 
Even as the conviction of truth roared through him , shattering his last hope of safety , he was reaching to release the hand brake , to head up the road for home , doing her bidding . 
He drove , and the road wobbled , familiar scenes crept past on either side . 
He came to a stretch of old orange groves , the trees dead , some of them uprooted , and then there was an outlying shopping area , and tract houses . 
He had the feeling that he should abandon the car and run off somewhere to hide . 
But he couldn't imagine where . 
There was really no place to go , finally , except home to Mae . 
At the gate he slowed , looking around . 
Cooper was beside his car , on the curb at the right , just standing there morosely ; ; he didn't even look up . 
Behind him on the steps of the little office sat old man Arthur ; ; he was straight , something angry in his attitude , as if he might be waiting to report something . 
Holden stepped on the gas . 
A new idea drifted in from nowhere . 
He could go to the police . 
He could tell them his fears of being involved , he could explain what had happened in the old neighborhood and how Mae had misunderstood and how she had held it over him -- the scene was complete in his mind at the moment , even to his own jerkings and snivelings , and Ferguson's silent patience . 
He could throw himself on the mercy of the Police Department . 
It wasn't what Mae would want him to do , though . 
He was sure of this . 
Once he had abandoned himself to the very worst , once he had quieted all the dragons of worry and suspense , there wouldn't be very much for Mae to do . 
At that moment , Holden almost slammed on the brakes to go back to Cooper and ask if Ferguson was about . 
It would be such a relief . 
What was that old sign , supposed to be painted over a door somewhere , Abandon hope , all ye who enter here ? 
Why , Holden said to himself , surprised at his own sudden insight , I'll bet some of those people who enter are just as happy as can be . 
They've worried , they've lain awake nights , they've shook at the slightest footstep , they've pictured their own destruction , and now it's all over and they can give up . 
Sure , they're giving up hope . 
Hand in hand with hope went things like terror and apprehension . 
Good-bye . 
Holden waved a hand at the empty street . 
Glad to see you go . 
He drove into the paved space before the garage and got out , slamming the car door . 
He looked up and down the street . 
If Ferguson's car had been in sight , Holden would have walked directly to it . 
He went to the front door and opened it and looked in . 
Mae entered the room from the hallway to the kitchen . 
She had a cup of something steaming , coffee perhaps , in one hand , a fresh piece of toast in the other . 
She stood there , watching Holden come in , and she put the piece of toast in her mouth and bit off one corner with a huge chomp of her white teeth . 
`` Mae '' -- `` I've been thinking '' , she said , swallowing the toast . 
`` Didn't you have an old pair of painting overalls in the garage ? 
You used them that time you painted the porch at our other house . 
And then you wiped up some grease '' . 
She had caught him off guard , no preparation , nothing certain but that ahead lay some kind of disaster . 
`` No . 
Wait a minute . 
What do you '' -- `` I've been looking for them , and they're gone . 
I'm sure they were in the garage up until a couple of days ago . 
Or even yesterday . 
You used to paint in them , and then you just took them for rags . 
The police have them now '' . 
`` I don't remember any overalls at all '' . 
`` They were all faded . 
Worn through at the knees '' . 
She stood sipping and chewing and watching . 
`` Green paint , wasn't it ? 
Well , I'm not sure of the color . 
But you had them '' . 
`` Mae , sit down . 
Put down the cup of coffee . 
Tell me what this is all about '' . 
She shook her head . 
She took another bite of toast . 
Holden noticed almost absently how she chewed , how the whole side of her cheek moved , a slab of fat that extended down into her neck . 
`` My goodness , you ought to remember if I do . 
You're going to have to go to the police and explain what happened . 
Tell them the truth or something before they come here '' . 
A seeping coldness entered Holden's being ; ; his nerves seemed frost-bitten down to the tips of his tingling fingers and his spine felt stiff and glass-like , liable to break like an icicle at any moment . 
`` I've never owned any painting overalls . 
A man with a sketch pad in hand sat with a large pink woman in a small office at the end of a long , dim corridor and made pencil lines on paper and said , `` Is this more like it , Mrs. MacReady ? 
Or are the eyebrows more like this '' ? 
When he had finished with that , he would go to another part of the hotel and say much the same things to someone else , most probably a busboy . 
`` Begin to look like him now , would you say ? 
Different about the mouth , huh ? 
More like this , maybe '' ? 
Men blew dust on objects in a room on the seventeenth floor of the Hotel Dumont and blew it off again , and did the same in a tiny , almost airless room in a tenement in the West Forties . 
And men also used vacuum cleaners in both rooms , sucking dust up once more . 
Men from the Third Detective District , Eighteenth Precinct , had the longest , the most tedious , job . 
At the Hotel Dumont there had , at the time in issue , been twenty-three overnighters , counting couples as singular . 
These included , as one , Mr. and Mrs. Anthony Payne , who had checked in a little after noon the day before , and had not checked out together . 
But Gardner Willings was not included ; ; he had been at the Dumont for almost a week . 
There was , of course , no special reason to believe that the man or woman they sought had stayed only overnight at the hotel . 
The twenty-three ( or twenty-two with the Paynes themselves omitted ) provided merely a place to start , and their identification was the barest of starts . 
With names and addresses listed , verification came next . 
It would take time ; ; it would , almost inevitably , trouble some water . 
( `` I certainly was not at the Dumont last night and my husband couldn't have been . 
He's in Boston . 
Of course he's in '' -- ) The Hotel King Arthur across the street provided almost twice as many problems . 
The King Arthur offered respectable and convenient lodgings to people from the suburbs who wanted to see a show and didn't want -- heaven knew didn't want ! 
-- to lunge anxiously through crowded streets to railroad stations and , at odd hours of night , drive from smaller stations to distant homes , probably through rain or , in November , something worse . 
The King Arthur was less expensive than the Dumont . 
The King Arthur had fifty-four overnighters , again counting rooms rather than people . 
Check the overnighters out . 
Failing to find what was wanted , as was most likely , check out other guests , with special -- but not exclusive -- attention to those with rooms on the street . 
( Anyone active enough can reach a roof , wherever his room may be . 
) And know , while all this went on , that there was no real reason to suppose that the murderer had been a guest in either hotel . 
It was not even certain the shot had been fired from either hotel . 
There were other roofs , less convenient but not impossible . 
It is dull business , detecting , and hard on feet . 
There was also the one salient question to ask , and ask widely : Did you notice anything out of the way ? 
Like , for example , a man carrying a twenty-two rifle , probably with a telescopic sight attached ? 
There was , of course , no hope it really would be that simple . 
The sniper , whether psychopathic marksman or murderer by intent , would hardly have walked to his vantage point with rifle over shoulder , whistling a marching tune . 
Anybody carrying anything that might hide a rifle ? 
Long thin suitcase ? 
Or long fat suitcase , for that matter ? 
Shrugs met that , from room clerks , from bellhops . 
Who measures ? 
But nothing , it appeared , long enough to attract attention . 
Cases , say , for musical instruments ? 
None noted at the Dumont . 
Several at the King Arthur . 
A combo was staying there . 
And had been for a week . 
Anything else ? 
Anything at all ? 
Shrugs met that . 
( Detective Pearson , Eighteenth Precinct , thought for a time he might be on to something . 
A refuse bin at the Dumont turned up a florist's box -- a very long box for very long-stemmed flowers . 
Traces of oil on green tissue ? 
The lab to check . 
The lab : sorry . 
No oil . 
) Anything at all strange ? 
Well , a man had tried , at the King Arthur , to register with an ocelot . 
At the Dumont , a guest had come in a collapsible wheel chair . 
At the King Arthur one guest had had his head heavily bandaged , and another had a bandaged foot and had walked with crutches . 
There had also been a man who must have had St. Vitus or something , because he kept jerking his head . 
As reports dribbled in , William Weigand tossed them into the centrifuge which had become his head . 
Mullins came in . 
There was no sign of Mrs. Lauren Payne at her house on Nod Road , Ridgefield , Connecticut . 
The house was modern , large , on five acres . 
Must have cost plenty . 
The State cops would check from time to time ; ; pass word when there was word to pass . 
Weigand tossed this news into the centrifuge . 
Sort things out , damn it . 
Sort out the next move . 
Try to forget motive for the moment . 
Consider opportunity . 
Only those actually with Payne when he was shot , or who had left the party within not more than five minutes ( make five arbitrary ) positively had none . 
The Norths ; ; Hathaway , Jerry's publicity director ; ; Livingston Birdwood , producer of Uprising . 
They had been with Payne when he was shot , could not therefore have shot him from above . 
Take Gardner Willings . 
He had left after the scuffle ; ; had been seen to leave . 
He would have had ample time to go into a blind somewhere and wait his prey . 
Consider him seriously , therefore ? 
Intangibles entered , then -- hunches which felt like facts . 
Willings would ambush , certainly ; ; Willings undoubtedly had . 
Willings was , presumably , a better than average shot . 
But -- hunch , now -- Willings would not ambush anything which went on two legs instead of four . 
Because , if for no other reason , Willings would never for a moment suppose he was not bigger , tougher , than anything else that went on two legs . 
Ambushes are laid by those who doubt themselves , as any man may against a tiger . 
Faith Constable had had to `` go on '' from the party and had , presumably , gone on . 
To be checked out further . 
Forget motive ? 
No , motive is a part of fact . 
Nobody in his right mind punishes a quarter-century-old dereliction . 
Grudges simply do not keep that well in a sane mind . 
Faith Constable had accomplished much in a quarter of a century . 
Jeopardize it now to correct so old a wrong ? 
Bill shook his head . 
Also , he thought , I doubt if she could hit the side of a barn with a shotgun . 
Lauren herself ? 
She had left the party early , pleading a headache . 
No lack of opportunity , presuming she had a gun . 
She might , conceivably , have brought one in in a large-enough suitcase . 
( Check on the Payne luggage . 
) She might now have taken it away again . 
Motive -- her husband wandering ? 
Bitter , unreasoning jealousy ? 
Heaven knew it happened and hell knew it too . 
But -- it happened , almost always , among the primitive and , usually , among the very young . 
( Call it mentally young ; ; call it retarded . 
) There was nothing to indicate that Lauren Payne was primitive . 
She did not move in primitive circles . 
She was young , but not that young . 
It occurred to Bill Weigand that he was , on a hunch basis , eliminating a good many . 
He reminded himself that all eliminations were tentative . 
He also reminded himself that he had an unusual number of possibilities . 
The Masons , mother or son , or mother and son ? 
Opportunity was obvious . 
Motive . 
Here , too , the cause to hate lay well back in the years . 
But bitterness had more cause to remain , even increasingly to corrode . 
With the boy , particularly . 
The boy had , apparently -- if Mrs. MacReady was right in what she had told Mullins -- only in recent months been forced to give up college , to work as a busboy . 
Seeing the man he blamed for this made much of -- youth and bitterness and -- Bill picked up the telephone ; ; got Mullins . 
`` Send out a pickup on Mrs. Mason and the boy when you've got enough to go on '' , Bill said . 
`` Right '' ? 
Mullins would do . 
A man named Lars Simon , playwright-director , had expressed a wish that Anthony Payne drop dead . 
He would say , of course , that he had not really had any such wish ; ; that what he had said was no more than one of those things one does say , lightly , meaning nothing . 
Which probably would turn out to be true ; ; which he obviously had to be given the opportunity to say . 
A man named Blaine Smythe , with `` y '' and `` e '' but pronounced without them , had been fired at Payne's insistence . 
He was also , if Pam North was right , a closer acquaintance of Lauren Payne's than she , now , was inclined to admit . 
He might deny the latter ; ; would certainly deny any connection between the two things , or any connection of either with murder . 
He would have to be given the opportunity . 
Mullins ? 
It was evident that Mullins was the man to go . 
It was evident that a captain should remain at his desk , directing with a firm hand and keeping a firm seat . 
Bill Weigand was good and tired of the wall opposite , and the crack in the plaster . 
Let Mullins keep the firm seat ; ; let Stein . 
When Siamese cats are intertwined it is difficult to tell where one leaves off and another begins . 
Stilts and Shadow , on Pam's bed , appeared to be one cat -- rather large , as Siamese cats go , and , to be sure , having two heads and two tails . 
On the other hand , they , or it , seemed to have no legs whatever . 
Pamela North said , `` Hi '' , to her cats , and added that proper cats met their humans at the door . 
Of four dark brown ears , one twitched slightly at this . 
`` All right '' , Pam said . 
`` I know it isn't dinnertime '' . 
But at this the one too-large cat suddenly became two cats , stretching . 
Shadow , the more talkative , began at once to talk , her voice piteous . 
Stilts , a more direct cat , leaped from the bed and trotted briskly toward the kitchen . 
Shadow looked surprised , wailed , and trotted after her . 
The hell it isn't dinnertime , two waving tails told Pam North . 
It was not , whatever tale was told by tails . 
Martha presumably would cope . 
She might be firm . 
It was most unlikely that she would be firm . 
They want to be fat cats , Pam thought , and lighted a cigarette and leaned back on a chaise and considered pulling her thoughts together . 
After a time , it occurred to her that her thoughts were not worth the trouble . 
A vague feeling that Anthony Payne had had it coming was hardly a thought and was , in any event , reprehensible . 
Had Faith Constable's explanation of her confidence , so uninvited , been a little thin ? 
That was more like a thought , but not a great deal more . 
Had that tall dark boy , carrying trays too heavy for him , found what he might have considered adulation of a man he probably hated more than he could bear ? 
And possessed himself -- how ? 
-- of a rifle and killed ? 
Pam found she had no answers ; ; had only a hope . 
The poor kid -- the poor , frail kid . 
Some people have luck and some have no luck and that , whatever people who prefer order say , is the size of it . 
The poor , unlucky -- The telephone rang . 
Pam realized , to her surprise , that she had been almost dozing . 
At four o'clock in the afternoon . 
Two martinis for lunch -- that was the trouble . 
I ought to remember . 
Don't pretend . 
You do remember . 
You just -- `` Hello ? 
Yes , this is she ? 
What '' ? 
The voice had music in it . 
Even with words coming too fast , they came on the music of the voice . 
`` I said I would '' , Pam said . 
`` They won't talk about who gave the information . 
Not unless they have to . 
They don't , Mrs. Constable . 
Not unless they have '' -- She was interrupted . 
`` Call this a cry for help '' , Faith Constable said . 
`` Through a door conveniently unlocked '' , Madden supplemented . 
`` That damn door '' , said the police chief . 
`` A gift horse to be viewed with suspicion '' . 
Madden's dark face wore a meditative look . 
`` If there was collusion between an outside murderer and a member of the household it would be an elementary precaution to check on the door later . 
And it makes a very poor red herring for an inside job . 
Much better to break a cellar window '' . 
`` Don't forget , there was the hope it would pass for a natural death '' , Pauling reminded him . 
`` Well , with a house as big as that there must be at least one cellar window that wouldn't be noticed right away unless there was a police investigation '' . 
`` Yeah . 
And a pane of glass isn't hard to '' -- The telephone interrupted him . 
He scooped up the receiver and said , `` Police chief '' , into the mouthpiece , and then , `` Oh yes , Mr. Benson . 
I was hoping I'd hear from you today '' . 
With his free hand he pulled a pad and pencil toward him and began to make notes as he listened , saying , `` Uh-huh '' and `` I see '' at intervals . 
At last he said , `` Well , thank you for calling , Mr. Benson . 
Although there was no doubt in my mind and we've been handling it as one I'm glad to have it made official '' . 
He hung up . 
`` Coroner '' , he said to Madden . 
`` He's just heard from the pathologist who says Mrs. Meeker apparently died from suffocation '' . 
Pauling looked at his notes . 
`` Many minute hemorrhages in the lungs ; ; particles of lint and thread in the mouth and nostrils . 
Scrapings from the bed linen identical with the lint and thread found in the nasal and oral cavities . 
No other cause of death apparent . 
Trachea clear of mucus and foreign objects . 
Brain examined for thrombosis , clot or hemorrhage . 
No signs of these , no gross hemorrhage of lungs , heart , brain or stomach '' . 
He paused . 
`` That's about it . 
Oh , the time of death . 
The duration of the digestive process varies , the pathologist says , but the empty stomach and the findings in the upper gastrointestinal tract indicate that Mrs. Meeker died several hours after her seven-o'clock dinner . 
Probably around midnight , give or take an hour either way '' . 
Pauling paused again . 
`` So there it is '' , he said . 
`` Not your problem , of course , unless Johnston and the murderer are one and the same '' . 
They discussed this possibility . 
However likely it was , Pauling said , he couldn't limit himself to it . 
He had to look for other prospects , other motives until more conclusive evidence pointing to Johnston came to light . 
Madden , with his investigation centered on the fraud , said that tomorrow he would go to the Bronx bank through which Mrs. Meeker's checks to Johnston had cleared . 
Arthur Williams had to be located , they agreed . 
He might have been in collusion with Johnston on the fraud ; ; he might be Mrs. Meeker's murderer or have played some part in her death . 
This was Madden's suggestion ; ; the police chief shook his head over it . 
If Arthur Williams was involved in the fraud or the murder , then he too had another identity . 
No one the Medfield police had questioned professed to know any more about him than about Johnston . 
Scholarship applicant ? 
Pauling looked doubtful . 
Madden explained that he was thinking of an application sent directly to Mrs. Meeker . 
Then he asked to use the phone and called Brian Thayer , who said that he was just leaving to keep a lunch date but would be home by two o'clock . 
Madden said that he would see him at two and made another call , this one to Mrs. Meeker's lawyers . 
Mr. Hohlbein was out for the day , but Mr. Garth would be free at one-thirty . 
The secretary's tone indicated that an appointment at such short notice was a concession for which Madden should be duly grateful . 
He inferred that Hohlbein and Garth were high-priced lawyers . 
He had lunch with Pauling . 
Promptly at one-thirty he entered Hohlbein and Garth's elegant suite of offices in Medfield's newest professional building . 
He disliked Garth on sight , conservative clothes and haircut , smile a shade too earnestly boyish for a man who must be well into his thirties , handclasp too consciously quick and firm . 
Youngish man on the make , Madden labeled him , and was ready to guess that in a correct , not too pushing fashion , the junior partner of the firm had political ambitions ; ; that Mrs. Garth would be impeccably suitable as the wife of a rising young lawyer ; ; that there were three children , two boys and a girl ; ; that she was active in the Woman's Club and he in Lions , Rotary , and Jaycee ; ; and finally , that neither of them had harbored an unorthodox opinion since their wedding day . 
Madden knew that he could be completely wrong about all this , but also knew that he would go right on disliking Garth . 
Garth was prepared to be helpful in what he referred to with fastidious distaste as this unfortunate Johnston affair , which would not , he said more than once , have ever come about if Mrs. Meeker had only seen fit to consult Mr. Hohlbein or him about it . 
Madden regretted not being able to find fault with so true a statement . 
He asked to see a copy of Mrs. Meeker's will . 
Garth brought one out . 
The date , October 8 , 1957 , immediately caught the inspector's eye . 
`` Fairly recent '' , he remarked . 
`` Was she in the habit of making new wills '' ? 
`` Oh no . 
She had reason to change the one she made right after Mr. Meeker's death . 
Her estate had grown considerably . 
She wanted to make a more equitable distribution of it among the groups that would benefit the most ; ; particularly the scholarship fund . 
At the time the will was drawn Mr. Hohlbein mentioned to me how mentally alert she seemed for her age , knowing just what changes she wanted made and so forth '' . 
Garth hesitated . 
`` Mr. Hohlbein and I have noticed some lapses since , though . 
Most of them this past year , I'd say . 
Even two or three years ago I doubt that she'd have become involved in this unfortunate Johnston affair . 
She'd have consulted us , you see . 
She always did before , and showed the utmost confidence in whatever we advised '' . 
The inspector nodded , doubting this . 
Mrs. Meeker hadn't struck him as ready to seek anyone's advice , least of all Garth's . 
With her sharp tongue she'd have cut his pompousness to ribbons . 
It would have been Hohlbein who handled her affairs . 
Madden settled back to read the will . 
He skimmed over the millions that went to Meeker Park , Medfield Hospital , the civic center , the Public Health Nursing Association , the library , and so on , pausing when he came to the scholarship fund . 
Two millions were added to what had been set aside for it in Mrs. Meeker's lifetime , and the proviso made that as long as Brian Thayer continued to discharge his duties as administrator of the fund to the satisfaction of the board of trustees ( hereinafter appointed by the bank administering the estate ) he was to be retained in his present capacity at a salary commensurate with the increased responsibilities enlargement of the fund would entail . 
A splendid vote of confidence in Thayer , Madden reflected . 
Tenure , too . 
Very nice for him . 
He went on to personal bequests , a list of names largely unknown to him . 
Twenty-five thousand to each of the great-nieces in Oregon ( not much to blood relatives out of millions ) ten thousand to this friend and that , five thousand to another ; ; to Brian Thayer , the sum of ten thousand dollars ; ; to the Pecks , ten thousand each ; ; to Joan Sheldon the conditional bequest of ten thousand to be paid to her in the event that she was still in Mrs. Meeker's employ at the time of the latter's death . 
( No additional five thousand for each year after Joan's twenty-first birthday ; ; Mrs. Meeker hadn't got around to taking care of that . 
) Too bad , Madden thought . 
Joan Sheldon had earned the larger bequest . 
Mr. Hohlbein was left twenty thousand , Garth ten . 
There were no other names Madden recognized . 
Arthur Williams's might well have been included , he felt . 
Mrs. Meeker had spent a small fortune on a search for him but had made no provision for him in her will if he should be found after her death , and had never mentioned his name to her lawyers . 
Madden took up this point with Garth , who shrugged it off . 
`` Old people have their idiosyncrasies '' . 
`` This one came a bit high at thirty thousand or more . 
`` Well , she had a number of them where money was concerned '' , Garth said . 
`` Sometimes we'd have trouble persuading her to make tax-exempt charitable contributions , and I've known her to quarrel with a plumber over a bill for fixing a faucet ; ; the next moment she'd put another half million into the scholarship fund or thirty thousand into something as impractical as this unfortunate Johnston affair . 
There was no telling how she'd react to spending money '' . 
Madden inquired next about the audit of the scholarship fund . 
There was an annual audit , Garth informed him . 
No discrepancies or shortages had ever been found . 
Brian Thayer was a thoroughly honest and competent administrator . 
His salary had reached the ten thousand mark . 
His expenses ran another four or five thousand . 
The lawyer didn't know him very well although he saw him occasionally at some dinner party -- Thayer , like himself , Madden reflected , was the extra man so prized by hostesses -- and found him easy enough to talk to . 
But he didn't play golf , didn't seem to belong to any local clubs -- his work took him away a lot , of course -- which probably accounted for his tendency to keep to himself . 
Garth's glance began to flicker to his watch . 
He said that he had already told the police chief that he didn't know what insurance man had recommended Johnston to Mrs. Meeker . 
He would offer no theory to account for her murder . 
The whole thing , his manner conveyed , was so far outside the normal routine of Hohlbein and Garth that it practically demanded being swept under the rug . 
No doubt Mrs. Meeker had snubbed him many a time and he felt no grief over her passing . 
Even so , Madden's dislike of the suave , correct lawyer deepened . 
It would be all right with him , he decided , if his investigation of the fraud , with its probable by-product of murder , led to Garth's door . 
Motive ? 
Ten-thousand-dollar bequest . 
At first glance , not much of a motive for a man of his standing ; ; but for all his air of affluence , who could tell what his private financial picture was ? 
The inspector knew as he left that this was wishful thinking . 
Nevertheless , he made a mental note to look into Garth's financial background . 
Brian Thayer had a downtown address . 
He lived in an apartment house not over three or four years old , a reclaimed island of landscaped brick and glass on the fringe of the business district . 
He occupied a two-bedroom apartment on the fourth floor , using the second bedroom as his office . 
Airy and bright , the apartment was furnished with good modern furniture , rugs , and draperies . 
Done by a professional decorator , Madden thought , and somehow as impersonal , as unremarkable as its occupant . 
In Dunston the rent would run close to two hundred a month ; ; in Medfield , perhaps twenty-five less , not all of it paid by Thayer , who could charge off one room on his expense account . 
He took Madden into the room he used as an office . 
It contained a desk , files , a typewriter on a stand , and two big leather armchairs . 
A newspaper open at stock-market reports lay on one of them . 
Thayer folded it up and offered a drink . 
The inspector declined . 
To begin the interview , he asked if Thayer , with more time to think it over , could add to what he had said the other day about Johnston . 
Thayer shook his head . 
`` It's all I think about , too . 
That and her death . 
It's still unbelievable that it was murder . 
For all her domineering ways , I can't conceive of her having had a deadly enemy '' . 
`` Dammit , Phil , are you trying to wreck my career ? 
Because that's what you're doing -- wrecking it , wrecking it , wrecking it '' ! 
Griffith had confronted Hoag on the building's front steps -- Hoag had been permitted no further -- and backed him against a wrought-iron railing . 
His rage had built up as he made his way here from the second floor , helped by the quantity of champagne he had consumed . 
Hoag said , `` I didn't send for you , Leigh . 
I want the captain in charge . 
Where is he '' ? 
`` Phil , for God's sake , go away . 
The undersecretary's in there . 
I told you there's nothing between Midge and me , nothing . 
It's all in your mind '' . 
A couple of sobs escaped him , followed by a sentiment that revealed his emotional state . 
`` Why , I'm not fit to touch the hem of her garment '' . 
`` Leigh , get a grip on yourself . 
It's not about you or Midge . 
I have some security information about the prime minister '' . 
Griffith looked at him suspiciously through red-rimmed eyes . 
`` Not about me ? 
You mean it , Phil ? 
You wouldn't pull my leg , old man ? 
I did get you on the platform this morning '' . 
`` I'm not pulling your leg . 
Will you call that captain '' ? 
`` No use , he won't come '' . 
He peered closely at Hoag in the gathering darkness . 
`` What happened to your head '' ? 
`` I was hit -- knocked out . 
Now will you get him '' ? 
`` He says I'm to take the message '' . 
He stared at Hoag drunkenly . 
`` Who'd hit you in the head '' ? 
`` It doesn't matter . 
You get back to the captain and tell him this : Somebody's going to take a shot at the prime minister , and Mahzeer is in on the plot . 
Tell him under no circumstances to trust the prime minister with Mahzeer '' . 
Griffith said , `` That's impossible . 
Mahzeer's the ambassador '' . 
`` Nevertheless it's true '' . 
`` Impossible '' . 
Griffith was trying to clear his head of the champagne fuzz that encased it . 
`` I'll show you how wrong you are . 
Mahzeer and the prime minister are alone right now '' . 
He nodded triumphantly . 
`` So that proves it '' ! 
Hoag looked terrified . 
`` Where are they '' ? 
`` Where'd you expect , the john ? 
Mahzeer's office '' . 
`` Where is that '' ? 
`` Facing us , two flights up . 
Look , old man , you can't go up . 
They won't even let you in the front door . 
So why don't you be a good boy and '' -- Hoag grabbed him by the shoulders . 
`` Listen to me , Leigh . 
If you want to spend another day in the State Department -- another day -- you get in there and tell that captain what I told you '' . 
He bit out the words . 
`` And you know I can do it '' . 
Griffith raised placating hands . 
`` Easy does it , Phil . 
I was just going . 
I'm on my way '' . 
He turned and fled into the house and made his way up the marble stairs without once looking back . 
On the second landing he paused to look for Docherty , didn't see him , and accepted a glass of champagne . 
He took several large swallows , recollected that Docherty had gone up another flight , and decided he would be wise to cover himself by finding him . 
The way Hoag was , no telling what he might say or do . 
He finished his champagne and climbed uncertainly to the next landing . 
At the top a uniformed officer blocked further progress . 
`` Yes , what is it '' ? 
He asked . 
`` I want Captain Docherty '' . 
He spotted Docherty coming out of a room at the far end of the corridor and called to him . 
Docherty said , `` It's okay , Bonfiglio , let him by '' . 
They walked toward each other . 
`` Well '' ? 
Griffith said , `` Hoag told me to tell you '' -- he waited until they were close ; ; it was hideously embarrassing -- `` not to let the prime minister be alone with Mahzeer '' . 
Griffith looked half-crocked to the captain ; ; it would be just like him . 
`` Why not '' ? 
`` He claims Mahzeer's in a plot to kill the P.M. '' . 
Docherty went taut : was it possible ? 
Could the ambassador himself be the man on this side the prime minister feared ? 
Not possible , he thought ; ; the prime minister knew who his enemy was here ; ; he wasn't going to allow himself to be led meekly to the slaughter . 
And if by some wild chance Mahzeer was the man , he wouldn't dare try anything now -- not after Docherty had looked in on the two of them to see that all was well . 
Docherty was damned if he would make a fool of himself again the way he had earlier over the laundry truck . 
One more muddleheaded play like that one and they'd be leading him away . 
Still , this had to be checked out . 
`` Where'd your friend Hoag get his information '' ? 
He asked . 
`` Haven't the faintest , Captain '' . 
`` Would you mind sending him up here ? 
I'd like to talk to him '' . 
Troubled , he continued along the corridor , poking his head into the next office for a careful look around . 
But Hoag had not stayed on the front steps when Griffith disappeared into the building . 
He was unwilling to rely on Griffith's carrying his message , and he had no confidence the police would act on it . 
If Mahzeer was alone with the prime minister he could be arranging his execution while Hoag stood out here shivering in the darkening street . 
He would have to do something on his own . 
But what ? 
The door opened and three men and a woman in a sari swept past him and down the stairs . 
In the lighted interior he saw other men and women struggling into their wraps . 
These were the early departures ; ; in half an hour the reception would be over . 
If Mahzeer was planning to set up the prime minister for Muller he would have to do it in the next few minutes . 
Hoag descended the stone steps to the street and looked up at the building . 
Wide windows with many small leaded panes swept across the upper stories . 
On the second floor he saw the animated faces of the party guests ; ; the scene looked like a Christmas card . 
On the third floor one of the two windows was lighted ; ; it was framed in maroon drapes , and no faces were visible . 
This would be Mahzeer's office . 
He and the prime minister would be back from the window , seated at Mahzeer's desk ; ; they would be going over papers Mahzeer had saved as excuse for just such a meeting . 
In a minute , or five minutes , the business would be done ; ; Mahzeer would stand up , the prime minister would follow . 
Mahzeer would direct the prime minister's attention to something out the window and would guide him forward and then step to one side . 
The single shot would come ; ; Hoag would carry its sound to his grave . 
Mahzeer , of course , would be desolate . 
How was he to suspect that an assassin had been lurking somewhere across the street waiting for just such a chance ? 
Hoag turned . 
Where across the street ? 
Where was Muller waiting with the rifle ? 
Narrow four-story buildings ran the length of the block like books tightly packed on a shelf . 
Most of them could be eliminated ; ; Muller's would have to be one of the half dozen almost directly opposite . 
The legation was generously set back from the building line ; ; if the angle of fire were too great the jutting buildings on either side would interfere . 
Would the shot come from a roof ? 
He ran his eye along the roof copings ; ; almost at once a figure bulked up . 
But dully glinting on the dark form were the buttons and badge of a policeman . 
With a cop patrolling the road Muller would have to be inside a building -- if he was here at all , and not waiting for the prime minister somewhere between this street and the terminal building at La Guardia Airport . 
Hoag crossed the narrow street , squeezing between parked cars to reach the sidewalk . 
From this side he could see farther into the legation's third-story window , but he saw no faces ; ; the room's occupants were still seated or they had been called into the hallway by an alarmed police captain . 
If only the latter were true . 
He walked rapidly along the buildings scanning their facades : one was a club -- that was out ; ; two others he ruled out because all their windows were lighted . 
That left three , possibly four , one looking much like the next . 
He climbed the steps of the first and opened the door to the vestibule . 
He quickly closed it again . 
He had assumed that all these buildings had been divided into apartments , but this one , from a glance at the hall furnishings , was obviously still a functioning town house , and its owners were in residence ; ; that made it doubtful as the hiding place of a man whose plans had to be made in advance . 
He went on to the next building and found what he expected -- the mingled cooking aromas of a public vestibule . 
On one wall was the brass front of a row of mailboxes ; ; there were six apartments . 
Now what ? 
The names on the mailboxes meant nothing to him . 
This was senseless -- he had no idea what to look for . 
He peered in the boxes themselves ; ; all were empty except one , and that one was jammed with letters and magazines . 
The occupants of Apartment Number 3 were probably away for a few days , and not likely to return on a Friday . 
Had Muller made the same deduction ? 
Muller was attracted to the lore of mailboxes . 
He opened the inner door ; ; the cooking odors were stronger -- all over the city , at this hour , housewives would be fussing over stoves . 
He climbed , as quickly as he could urge his body , up the two unbroken flights to the third floor , pulling himself along on a delicate balustrade , all that remained of the building's beauty . 
He paused on the landing to steady his breathing and then bent to examine the single door by the light of the weak bulb overhead . 
Now he was certain : the lock had not yielded to Muller's collection of keys ; ; fresh scars showed that the door had been prized open . 
It had been shut again , but the lock was broken ; ; he noted with a thrill of fear that the door moved under his touch . 
What was he to do now ? 
He had thought no further than finding Muller . 
He realized now he had more than half hoped he wouldn't find him -- that Muller would not be here , that the attempt would be scheduled for somewhere beyond Hoag's control . 
He could not break in on an armed man . 
He would have to climb back down to the street and signal a cop . 
Was there time ? 
His thoughts were scattered by the sharp report of a rifle from the other side of the door . 
Hoag pushed open the door : at the far end of the long dark room Muller was faintly silhouetted against the window , the rifle still raised ; ; he stood with his feet apart on a kitchen table he had dragged to the sill . 
He turned his head to the source of the disturbance and instantly back to the window and his rifle sight , dismissing Hoag for the moment with the same contempt he had shown in their encounter at Hoag's apartment . 
Hoag stretched his left hand to the wall and fumbled for the switch : evil flourishes in the dark . 
The room was bathed in light at the instant Muller's second shot came . 
Muller , nakedly exposed at the bright window like a deer pinned in a car's headlights , threw down the rifle and turned to jump from the table ; ; his face wore a look of outrage . 
A shot caught him and straightened him up in screaming pain ; ; a following volley of shots shattered glass , ripped the ceiling , and sent him lurching heavily from the table . 
He was dead before his body made contact with the floor . 
Hoag stumbled back into the hall , leaned against the wall , and started to retch . 
After Captain Docherty sent Arleigh Griffith for Hoag he was able to complete his detailed inspection of the third floor and to receive a report from his man covering the floors above before Griffith returned , buoyed up by a brief stop for another glass of champagne . 
The safe at Ingleside District Station stands next to the gum machine in a narrow passageway that leads to Captain Harris's office ( to the left ) , the lieutenant's office ( farther along and to the left ) and the janitor's supply closet ( straight ahead ) . 
The safe is a repository for three dead flashlight batteries , a hundred and fifty unused left-hand fingerprint cards , a stack of unsold Policemen's Ball tickets from last year , and thirty-seven cents in coins and stamps . 
Gun set the captain's fifth of Hiram Walker inside the safe before he reported to Lt. Killpath , though he knew that Killpath's ulcer prevented him from making any untoward incursion on Herman Wolff's gift . 
It was more a matter of tact , and also it was none of Killpath's goddam business . 
He walked up to the lieutenant's office , leaned wearily against the gun rack that housed four rifles and a gas gun nobody remembered having used and a submachine gun that was occasionally tried out on the Academy Range . 
He stared at the clerk who sat at a scarred and ancient fumed-oak desk stuffing envelopes . 
`` Where's the Lieut '' ? 
The clerk wagged his head toward the captain's office . 
Gun went to the connecting door , which was open , and stood at attention while Orville Torrence Killpath , in full uniform , finished combing his hair . 
The lieutenant's sparse brown hair was heavily pomaded , and as Killpath raked the comb through it , it stuck together in thatches so that it looked like umbrella ribs clinging to his pink skull . 
The lieutenant eyed Gun's reflection in the mirror over the washbowl and then glanced back at his own face , moving the comb methodically around his head . 
Leave me alone , Gun thought . 
Fight with Sam Schaeffer , fight with the whole damned Bureau . 
But leave me alone . 
Because I'm looking for the son of a bitch that killed that old man , and I'm going to get him . 
If you just leave me to hell alone , Lieutenant . 
Killpath peered through half-closed lids at his reflection , thrust up his chin in a gesture of satisfaction and about-faced . 
Gun waited for Killpath to sit down behind the desk near the window . 
He sat stiff-backed in a chair that did not swivel , though it was obvious to Gun that Killpath felt his position as acting captain plainly merited a swivel chair . 
The desk before him was in no better repair than the rest of the furniture crowded into the room , including wooden file cabinets with some of their pulls yanked off and a wardrobe stained with the roof seepage of countless seasons . 
Killpath pulled one thin leg up , clamping his arms around the shinbone to press his knee into an incredibly scrawny gut . 
It was the posture which the men had come to recognize as that of Killpath defying his ulcer . 
He put his chin on his kneecap , stretching his neck like that of a turkey on a chopping block , and stared wordlessly at his sergeant . 
Gun waited . 
The 7:45 bell rang and he could hear the outside doors bang shut , closing in the assembled day watch . 
Finally , Orville intoned through his hawk nose , `` We can't have people running in any time they please , Sergeant '' . 
`` No , sir '' . 
`` Running in , running out . 
Can't have it . 
Makes for confusion and congestion '' . 
He rocked back in the chair , knee locked against stomach , his beady eyes fixed on Matson . 
He was silent again , possibly listening to the sounds in the squadroom . 
Roll was being called . 
Gun cleared his throat . 
Killpath said , `` You were expected to report to my office twenty minutes ago , Sergeant . 
That's not getting all the juice out of the orange , now is it '' ? 
`` No , sir '' . 
Then Killpath smiled . 
Gun knew that nothing but aces back to back would give the lieutenant an ulcer and a smile at the same time . 
The day-watch platoon commander , Lt. Rinker , was calling out the beat assignments , but Matson couldn't make the names mean anything . 
`` I called the station at three this morning '' , Killpath's nasal voice pronounced . 
`` Do you have any idea who might have been in charge at the time '' ? 
`` Sergeant Vaughn , sir '' . 
`` Now , now , you're just guessing , Sergeant '' . 
He smiled thinly , savoring his joke . 
`` What if I said nobody was here but a couple of patrolmen '' ? 
`` Sir , Vaughn knows better than to leave the station without a relief . 
He must have '' -- `` He let a patrolman take over the duties of the station keeper . 
Now that's not regulation , is it '' ? 
`` No , sir '' . 
`` But you didn't know a thing about it , did you '' ? 
Killpath leaned forward ; ; his foot slipped off the chair and he put it back again , frowning now . 
`` That's not taking one's command with a responsible attitude , Matson '' . 
Gun told himself that the old bastard was a fool . 
But stupidity was no consolation when it had rank . 
`` I was out in the district , sir '' . 
`` Oh , yes . 
So I have heard '' . 
He stretched a pale hand out to the scattered papers on his desk . 
`` I might point out that your inability to report to my office this morning when you were instructed to do so has not ah limited my knowledge of your activities as you may have hoped '' . 
He took up a white sheet of paper , dark with single-spaced data . 
A car pulled into the driveway outside the window . 
Gun knew it was Car 12 , the wagon , returned from delivering Ingleside's drunk-and-disorderlies to the City Jail . 
But for some fool reason he couldn't remember which men he'd put on the transfer detail . 
He stared at the report in Killpath's hand , sure it was written by Accacia -- just as sure as if he'd submitted it in his scrawled longhand . 
He sucked in his breath and kept quiet while Killpath laid down the sheet again , wound the gold-wire stems of his glasses around his ears and then , eying the report as it lay before him on the desk , intoned , `` Acting Lieutenant Gunnar Matson one failed to see that the station keeper was properly relieved two absented himself throughout the entire watch without checking on the station's activities or the whereabouts of his section sergeants three permitted members of the Homicide Detail of the Inspector's Bureau to arrogate for their own convenience a patrolman who was thereby prevented from carrying on his proper assignment four failed to notify the station commander Acting Captain O. T. Killpath of a homicide occurring in the district five frequented extralegal establishments known as after-hours spots for purposes of an unofficial and purportedly social nature and six '' -- he leaned back and peeled off his glasses `` -- failed to co-operate with the Acting Captain by returning promptly when so ordered . 
What have you to say to that , Sergeant '' ? 
Killpath sailed the paper across the desk , but Matson didn't pick it up or even glance at it . 
`` Well '' ? 
`` I didn't think Accacia knew so many big words , Lieutenant '' . 
Killpath licked his lips . 
`` Patrolman Accacia is an alert and conscientious law-enforcement officer . 
I don't think his diligence mitigates your negligence , Matson '' . 
`` Negligence , hell '' ! 
Gun held his breath a moment , pushing the volume and pitch of his voice down under the trapdoor in his throat . 
`` Sir . 
I would have been negligent and a goddam lousy cop to boot , if I'd sat around this station all night when somebody got away with murder in my district . 
It's too bad I didn't call you , and it's too bad I let Schaeffer use Accacia when he could have had a boy who'd be glad to learn something of Homicide procedure . 
But I'm not one damned bit sorry I went out to question the people I know in the places they hang around , and '' -- `` Let's not push our patience beyond the danger line , Sergeant '' , Killpath nasaled . 
`` I shouldn't like to have to write you up for insubordination as well as dereliction of duty '' . 
Gun stiffened , his hands balling into fists at his sides . 
He clamped his jaws to keep the fury from spilling out . 
An argument with Orville Torrence Killpath was as frustrating and as futile as a cap pistol on a firing range . 
Killpath leaned forward again , rocked comfortably with his arms still wrapped around one knee . 
`` Let's just remember , Sergeant , that we must all carry our own umbrella . 
A district station can't run smoothly , unless '' -- He interrupted himself , looking around Gun at the doorway . 
`` Morning , Lieutenant Rinker '' . 
`` Sorry , Orville . 
I thought you hadn't come in yet '' . 
`` I've been here for some time '' . 
He stood up , cocked his head and eyed Gun coldly . 
`` The sergeant is just leaving '' . 
It had come as no great surprise to Matson that the hot water in the showers didn't work , that Loren Severe had thrown up all over the stairs , or that some thieving bastard of a cop had walked off with his cigarettes . 
It was the best he could hope for on a watch that had ended with a session in Killpath's office . 
Now , as he passed the open counter that divided the assembly room from the business office , he nodded and said good night to the station keeper and his clerks , not stopping to hear the day-watch playback of his chewing out . 
Not that he gave a damn what the grapevine sent out about Killpath's little speech on the comportment of platoon commanders . 
He just didn't want to talk about it . 
If the acting captain wanted his acting lieutenant to sit on his ass around the station all night , Killpath would just have to go out and drag Gun back by the heels once an hour ; ; because he'd be damned if he was going to be a mid-watch pencil-pusher just to please his ulcerated pro-tem captain . 
At the doorway he squinted up at the gray morning overcast and patted his jacket pockets for the cigarettes , remembering then that he'd left them at the Doughnuttery . 
He could pick up another pack on his way home , if he were going home . 
But even before he started across the oiled road to his Plymouth , parked in the lot under the cypress trees across from the station , he knew that he wasn't going home . 
Not yet . 
It was nine o'clock in the morning : the hour which , like a spade turning clods of earth , exposed to the day a myriad of busy creatures that had lain dormant in the quiet night . 
Mission Street at this hour was populated by a whole community that Gun could not have seen on his tour of duty -- the neighborhood that had known Urbano Quintana by day . 
Then Sol Phillips had purchased the Alliance Furniture Mart seventeen years ago . 
It was professedly worth three thousand dollars in stock and good will , and the name was written in gold in foot-high letters across each of the two display windows . 
On the right window , at eye level , in smaller print but also in gold , was Gonzalez , Prop. , and under that , Se Habla Espanol . 
Mr. Phillips took a razor to Gonzalez , Prop. , but left the promise that Spanish would be understood because he thought it meant that Spanish clientele would be welcome . 
Language was no problem anyway ; ; Mr. Phillips had only to signal from his doorway to summon aid from the ubiquitous bilingual children who played on the sidewalks of Mission Street . 
Aside from the fact that business was slow this time of year and his one salesgirl was not the most enterprising , Mr. Phillips had no worries at all , and he said as much to Gun Matson , who sat across from him in civilian clothes , on a Jiffy-Couch-a-Bed , mauve velour , $79.89 nothing-down special ! 
`` She's honest as the day '' , Mr. Phillips said , and added , `` Mr. Gunnar , I can say this to you : Beebe is a little too honest . 
You can't tell a customer how much it's going to cost him to refinance his payments before he even signs for a loan on the money down ! 
A time plan is a mere convenience , you understand , and when '' -- He interrupted himself , smiling . 
`` I put her in lamps . 
That way I don't lose so much '' . 
`` Why don't you just hire somebody else '' ? 
`` She says she has to finish a story '' . 
He shrugged . 
`` I asked her why she couldn't do it tomorrow , but it seems the muse is working good tonight and she's afraid to let it go '' . 
Casey made some comment , but his mind was busy as he considered the man . 
His name was George Needham and he , too , had come from a good family . 
He was perhaps thirty-two , nicely set up , with light brown hair that had a pronounced wave . 
He was always well groomed and well tailored , and he had that rich man's look which was authentic enough and came from two good prep schools and a proper university . 
An only child , he had done all the things that young men do who have been born to money and social position until his father double-crossed him by dying broke . 
Since then he had worked at this and that , though some said his main interest was gambling . 
All this went through Casey's mind in the first instant , but what held his interest was the fact that these two should be together at all . 
For he had understood that Betty had been engaged to a boy named Barry Jenkins . 
She had grown up with young Jenkins , and he had heard that they had been at the point of getting married at least twice . 
He wanted to ask her about Jenkins now , but he knew he couldn't do so in Needham's presence . 
And so , still wondering and a little perplexed , he grinned at the girl and spoke lightly to make sure that she would know he was kidding . 
`` Where did you pick him up '' ? 
`` Oh , I've known him quite a while '' . 
She glanced at her companion fondly . 
`` Haven't I , George '' ? 
`` I've been after her for years '' , Needham said , `` but I've never been able to get anywhere until the last few days '' . 
The girl's eyes were softly shining as she reached out and touched Casey's hand . 
`` Can I tell you a secret ? 
We're going to get married . 
Do you approve '' ? 
Casey kept his smile fixed , but some small inner disturbance was working on him as he thought again about Needham , who was eight or ten years older than the girl . 
He wondered whether Needham was going to swear off gambling and get a steady job or whether he was counting on the income from Betty's estate to subsidize him . 
None of this showed in his face , and he tried to keep his skepticism in hand . 
He made a point of frowning , of acting out the part of the fond father-confessor . 
`` I'll have to give it some thought '' , he said . 
`` You wouldn't want me to say yes without making sure his intentions are honorable , would you '' ? 
She made a face at him and then she laughed . 
`` Of course not '' . 
`` I'll get my references in order '' , Needham said , and though he spoke with a smile , Casey somehow got the idea that he was not particularly amused . 
`` Stop by any time , Casey '' . 
He stood up and touched the girl's arm . 
`` Come on , darling . 
If you're really serious about working on that story , I'd better take you home '' . 
Casey watched them go , still frowning absently and then dismissing the matter as he called for his check . 
As he went out he told Freddie the dinner was perfect , and when he got his hat and coat from Nancy Parks and put a fifty-cent piece in the slot , he told her to be sure that it went toward her dowry . 
A taxi took him back to the bar and grill where he had left his car , and a few minutes later he found a parking place across the street from his apartment . 
Because his mind had been otherwise occupied for the past couple of hours , he did not think to look and see if Jerry Burton's car was still there . 
In fact , he did not think about Jerry Burton at all until he entered his living room and closed the door behind him . 
Only then , when his glance focused on the divan and saw that it was empty , did he remember his earlier problem . 
Even from where he stood he could see the neatly folded blanket that he had spread over Burton , the pillow , the sheet of paper on top of it . 
Then he was striding across the room , his thoughts confused but the worry building swiftly inside him as he snatched up the note . 
Jack : Look in the wastebasket . 
I knew the only way I could beat you was to play possum , but it was a good try , kid , and I appreciate it . 
The wastebasket stood near the wall next to the divan , and the instant Casey picked it up he knew what had happened . 
The discarded papers inside were sodden , there was a glint of liquid at the bottom , and the smell of whisky was strong and distinct . 
He put the basket down distastefully , muttering softly and thoroughly disgusted with himself and his plan that had seemed so foolproof . 
For he remembered too well how he had brought back the loaded drinks to Burton and then returned to the kitchen to get weaker drinks for himself . 
For another second or two he gave in to the annoyance that was directed at himself ; ; then his mind moved on to be confronted by something far more serious , and as the thought expanded , the implications jarred him . 
It no longer mattered that Burton had outsmarted him . 
The important thing was that Burton had gone somewhere to meet a blackmailer with a gun in his pocket . 
And that gun was empty . 
Even before his mind had rounded out the idea , he thrust one hand into his trousers pocket and pulled out the six slugs he had taken from the revolver . 
He considered them with brooding eyes , brows bunched as his brain grappled with the problem and tried to find some solution . 
He said : `` The crazy fool '' , half aloud . 
He put the shells on the table , as though he could no longer bear to hold them . 
He thought : Where the hell could he have gone ? 
How can I find him ? 
There was no answer to this and he began to pace back and forth across the room , his imagination out of control . 
He tried to tell himself that maybe Burton had sobered up enough to get some sense . 
Maybe he only intended to scare the blackmailer , whoever he was , in which case an unloaded gun would be good enough . 
He thought of other possibilities , none of them satisfactory , and finally he began to think , to wonder if there was some way he could reach Burton . 
Then , as he turned toward the telephone , it rang shrilly to shatter the stillness in the room and he reached for it eagerly . 
`` Yeah '' , he said . 
`` Casey '' ? 
`` Yeah '' . 
`` Tony Calenda '' . 
Casey heard the voice distinctly and he knew who it was , but it took him a while to make the mental readjustment and control the disturbance inside his head . 
When he heard Calenda say : `` What about that picture you took this afternoon '' ? 
It still took him another few seconds to remember the job he had done for Frank Ackerly . 
`` What picture '' ? 
He demanded . 
`` You took a picture of me at the corner of Washington and Blake about three thirty this afternoon '' . 
`` Who says so '' ? 
`` One of my boys '' . 
Casey believed that much . 
Calenda was not the sort who walked around without one of his `` boys '' close at hand . 
`` So '' ? 
`` With my trial coming up in Federal Court next week I wouldn't want that picture published '' . 
`` Who says it's going to be published '' ? 
`` I wouldn't even want it to get around '' . 
Under normal circumstances Casey was a little fussy when people told him what to do with pictures he had taken . 
Even so , he generally listened and was usually reasonable to those who voiced their objections properly . 
Right now , however , he was still too worried about Jerry Burton , and the gun that had no bullets , and the story Burton had told him , to care too much about Tony Calenda . 
His nerves were getting a little ragged and his impatience put an edge in his voice . 
`` Look '' , he said . 
`` I was hired to take a picture . 
I took it . 
That's all I know about it and that's all I care '' . 
`` Maybe you'd better tell the guy who hired you what I said '' . 
`` You tell him '' . 
`` All right '' , Calenda said , his voice still quiet . 
`` But I meant what I said , Casey . 
If that picture gets around and I find out you had anything to do with it , I'm going to send a couple of my boys around to see you '' . 
`` You do that '' , Casey said . 
`` Just be sure to send your two best boys , Tony '' . 
He hung up with a bang , annoyed at himself for running off at the mouth like that but still terribly concerned with the situation he had helped to create . 
As soon as he could think logically again he reached for the telephone directory and found Jerry Burton's home number . 
He dialed it and listened to it ring ten times before he hung up . 
He called the bar and grill where he had picked Burton up that afternoon . 
When he was told that no one had seen Burton since then , he thought of three other places that were possibilities . 
Each time he got the same answer and in the end he gave up . 
By the time he had smoked three cigarettes he had calmed down . 
He had done all he could and that was that . 
And anyway Burton was not the kind of guy who would be likely to get in trouble even when he was drunk . 
He , Casey , had been scared for a while , but that had come mostly from the fact that he felt responsible . 
He should have stayed here and watched Burton . 
He didn't . 
So he made a mistake . 
So what ? 
He kept telling himself this as he went out to the kitchen to make a drink . 
Only then did he decide he didn't want one . 
He considered opening a can of beer but vetoed that idea too . 
Finally he went into the bedroom and sat down to take off his shoes . 
He had just finished unlacing the right one when the telephone rang again . 
When he snatched it up the voice that came to him was quick and urgent . 
`` Casey ? 
You don't know me but I know you . 
If you want a picture get to the corner of Adams and Clark just as fast as you can . 
If you hurry you might beat the headquarters boys '' . 
Casey heard the click of the distant receiver before he could open his mouth , and it took him no more than three seconds to make his decision . 
For over the years he had received many such calls . 
Some of them came from people who identified themselves . 
Some telephoned because he had done them a favor in the past . 
Others because they expected some sort of reward for the information . 
A few passed along a tip for the simple reason that they liked him and wanted to give him a break . 
Only an occasional tip turned out to be a phony , and , like the police , Casey had made a point of running down all such suggestions and he did not hesitate this time . 
He was in his car with his camera and equipment bag in less than two minutes , and it took him only three more to reach the corner , a block from Columbus Avenue . 
It was a district of small factories and loft buildings and occasional tenements , and he could see the police radio car as he rounded the corner and slammed on the brakes . 
He did not bother with his radio -- there would be time for that later -- but as he scrambled out on the pavement he saw the filling station and the public telephone booth and knew instantly how he had been summoned . 
The police car had pulled up behind a small sedan , its headlights still on . 
Slowly he pulled out the hand throttle until the boat was moving at little more than a crawl , and watched Elaine rapidly spin from one station to another , tune in the null , then draw in a line on the chart . 
`` We're out just a little too far . 
Make a 90 degree straight for shore '' . 
Poet came in , raising his eyebrows appreciatively as he saw Elaine . 
`` Now '' ? 
He asked . 
`` Pretty quick '' , she replied . 
`` Will you drop the anchor '' ? 
Poet nodded , swung below and a moment later emerged from the forward hatch where he picked up the anchor . 
The rock and roll music coming from the radio station suddenly faded as the boat coasted into the null on the Aj . 
`` Reverse '' , Elaine said , then peered through the loop of the RDF and waved to Poet . 
A second later she came behind the wheel and backed off the anchor line until it was set in the ocean floor . 
She cut the engines and slowly the cruiser swung around on the end of its lines until its bow was pointing into the wind and the cockpit faced toward the shore . 
Nick watched her somewhat enviously as she efficiently cut the engines , and started the auxiliary motor . 
Poet came up from below , wearing new bathing trunks . 
The price tag hung from the belt and he pulled it off as he entered the chartroom and looked at it curiously . 
Nick wondered if Elaine had bought them , but he said nothing . 
Nobody , he suddenly realized , was saying anything . 
It seemed as if they were all under a spell . 
There should be an excited conversation , for somewhere , directly below them , was a treasure lost for more than four hundred years . 
But instead of chatter there was a null , like on the radio direction finder . 
Once , in New York , he had gone flying with some friends in a small private airplane with a single engine . 
They had all been laughing , joking , when suddenly the engine had failed . 
No one had screamed . 
No one had prayed . 
All had fallen into a complete silence , listening to the wind whistle over the wings . 
The pilot had been good . 
He'd landed the plane on a small airstrip in Connecticut and as soon as the aircraft had coasted to a stop , everyone had burst into chatter at the same moment . 
There had been tension in the plane during the silent descent ; ; a tension similar to the one now . 
But in the plane there was a concrete reason for it . 
Now , at this moment , there should be none unless skin diving was much more dangerous than he had been led to believe . 
Yet tension existed . 
The same taut-nerved relationship as there had been between the passengers on the plane now strained at the three of them here on the boat . 
It hung over them like a cloud , its arrival as sudden as a cloud skidding over the sun . 
Silently , Elaine picked up her keys from the table and went out into the cockpit , Poet behind her , Nick trailing behind him . 
She threw back a cushion over one of the seats , unlocked a padlock on the chest beneath it , then presently straightened , holding a long knife and a wicked looking spear gun in her hand . 
Poet whistled softly as he looked at the gun . 
`` Hydraulic '' ? 
He asked . 
Elaine nodded . 
`` They are the best '' . 
She kicked the locker lid shut and replaced the cushion . 
`` They are the most efficient '' . 
`` And the deadliest '' , Poet commented as he buckled on his tank harness . 
`` Why do you need an arsenal '' ? 
Nick asked , apprehensively , staring at the weapon . 
`` It's quite possible there's more than codfish down there , man '' , Poet replied with a short , nervous laugh as he held the harness for Elaine . 
A moment later , moving awkwardly because of the swimming fins , she picked up the gun , handed the knife to Poet , then rolled off the transom of the boat , back first . 
Poet nodded to Nick and entered the water in a similar fashion . 
Another moment and they were out of sight , leaving behind only a string of bubbles as a clue to their whereabouts . 
For a while Nick followed the twisting course of the bubbles , wondering which set came from Elaine . 
They remained close together , their air trail wiggling like serpents traveling side by side . 
Eventually the bubbles became lost in the sparkle of the ocean surface , and he rolled over on his back . 
Clasping his hands behind his head , he stared at the blue sky . 
There was nothing quite like being alone on a boat on the ocean . 
Alfredo certainly must have enjoyed being alone . 
Next to the ocean , probably the loneliest spot was the desert . 
If Elaine's uncle had stuck to this desire for aloneness , he probably would still be alive . 
Yet Alfredo wanted money wanted money to roam through the deserts . 
And Graham wanted money probably to roam among the dice tables in Las Vegas . 
It was an odd combination a strange pair to stumble upon the wreck of the Trinidad . 
But Graham hadn't stumbled on it . 
Two to three weeks prior to the charter of the Virginia , Graham had been snooping around the San Luis Rey Mission . 
The small helicopter with its two steel skids churned offshore and Nick raised up to watch it heading south . 
That was a hell of a note , he thought . 
A couple couldn't even find a secluded spot anywhere on a beach to neck nowadays without someone swooping down upon them . 
If the character flying that thing had gone over San Clemente Island yesterday he would have had an eyeful . 
Off to the west a beautiful schooner slowly beat its way into the wind , headed on a tack toward San Clemente . 
Behind it a cabin cruiser drifted crossways in the small ground-swell , a lone fisherman in the chair aft . 
The fisherman was right in the middle of the Deep . 
Nick recalled stories that the two best fishing spots in Southern California were over the La Jolla Deep and the Redondo Deep , two spots where the ocean dropped off to fantastic depths almost from the shoreline . 
Someday , geologists had warned , the land on both sides of these deeps would fall into the ocean and no more La Jolla or Redondo Beach . 
Meanwhile , fishermen took advantage of them to pull up whoppers . 
Sometimes the fish exploded as they neared the surface because of the difference in pressure . 
Why , he wondered , had Elaine wanted him along on this trip ? 
He couldn't skindive , he couldn't run a boat , except on the open sea . 
He stood up , stretched , looked around for the bubbles , but could see none . 
Strolling down to the galley , he lit the butane under the coffee pot and when the brew was heated , poured himself a cup and went up to the chartroom . 
Turning on the hi-fi , he went back to the cockpit , stretched out on the cushions and listened to the music . 
Elaine and Poet returned together , popping up over the transom almost like dolphins breaking water . 
He sat up and watched as they pulled themselves over the stern . 
`` Any luck '' ? 
He asked . 
Poet shook his head , sliding his face mask up on his forehead . 
`` We're right on the edge of the Deep '' , Elaine said . 
Pulling off her face mask , she carefully placed the spear gun across the stern , then lifted her wet hair from her back and squeezed out the water . 
`` Which is a break as the area to search is less than a square mile '' , she added as she swung her legs over the transom . 
`` Any news '' ? 
`` Not a thing '' . 
He tossed her a towel , then repeated the service for Poet . 
`` Cigarette '' ? 
Elaine shook her head as she slipped out of her harness , but Poet nodded . 
His feet still hung over the stern of the transom , but as he reached for the smoke he raised them to swing them in . 
The fin on his foot caught on the moulding , throwing him off balance . 
His forearm smashed painfully into the narrow washboard and he grimaced as he grabbed his bruised limb with his other hand and rolled into the boat . 
`` Kee-reist '' ! 
The word hissed distinctly from Poet's lips as he struggled to his feet . 
Nick's body became rigid . 
Turning slowly he saw Poet in a brilliant glare of horror . 
Poet ! 
His face was still creased in pain as he studied the underside of his arm . 
Poet a murderer ? 
Turning quickly toward Elaine , Nick saw that she , too , stood in shocked surprise . 
The sudden silence was too silent . 
Instinctively aware of the charged atmosphere , Poet raised his head slowly , looking first at Elaine . 
She had caught the implication of the oath . 
Her face was frozen into the mask of a mannequin , her body absolutely motionless . 
And then Nick knew that all of them knew Elaine , himself and Poet . 
Elaine recovered first , so quickly that Nick thought he might have imagined her sudden reaction . 
`` Do you need a bandage '' ? 
She asked steadily . 
Poet rubbed his arm . 
`` It's like banging a shin '' , he said , his eyes lingered on Nick's face , then moved back to Elaine . 
`` Hurts like hell for a second , then it disappears '' . 
`` I'll get some ointment '' . 
Elaine turned and started toward the companionway . 
But her walk was too steady , too slow , telegraphing her fear . 
Nick sensed it . 
So did Poet . 
Springing like a cat , he leaped back , swooped up the spring gun and , whirling , pointed it toward the cabin . 
At the same instant , Nick hit the barrel and threw himself upon the smaller man . 
The gun fired next to his ear with a vicious whoosh like the first stroke of an old steam engine . 
At the same instant , Elaine screamed wildly , the sound ending abruptly as Nick went off the boat and into the water on top of the frantic , struggling Poet . 
The moment the sea closed over Nick , some atavistic sense warned him that he would survive in this alien element only if he did not panic . 
But the murderer to whom he clung had a tremendous advantage . 
The wide flippers on Poet's feet gave his legs incredible power , driving the two of them down into the water as they rolled over and over . 
Poet was the captured , arms pinioned to his side , and he twisted convulsively trying to escape . 
Poet would escape , Nick thought grimly , because he wore the apparatus which would keep him alive under water . 
But Nick would not let go . 
The rubber and glass face mask slipped from Poet's forehead , bounced painlessly off Nick's chin , then disappeared . 
Poet twisted again and Nick's knuckles scraped on the air tank , ripping off the skin . 
For a split second , Nick relaxed his grip and Poet's slippery body spun completely around before Nick could stop him , holding him now from the rear . 
Something flailed at the side of Nick's head as they rolled around and around . 
Suddenly Poet stopped struggling and the two of them hung suspended in the water , not rising , not sinking . 
A sharp pain lanced across Nick's chest and a bubble of air escaped from his tortured lungs , joining dozens of others that sailed lazily toward the surface like helium balloons rising into the sky . 
A black , snake-like object swayed eerily in front of him , spewing bubbles from its flat cobra head . 
The air hose was free ! 
The discovery struck Nick like a blow . 
Desperately , Nick flashed one hand up , catching Poet's neck in the bend of his elbow . 
At the same instant , he grabbed the loose , writhing hose with his other hand and bit down on the hard rubber mouthpiece . 
Instinctively he exhaled through his nose then sucked in the air from the hose . 
At once the excruciating pain in his chest stopped and he was seized with a sudden , wild exultation . 
As if this was a signal , Poet abruptly began to thrash the water and the quick movement slowly made them sink through the water . 
Relentlessly , Nick held on , sucking on the hose , inhaling the air that belonged to Poet . 
Poet was not fighting Nick now . 
Harbor Point sticks out into the ocean like the fat neck of a steamer clam . 
It's a rich village but not much for action -- too many solid residents , not enough tourists or working stiffs . 
It's at the far end of the county and the last time I came here was for a hit and run manslaughter -- about seven months ago . 
Chief Bob Moore looked his same hick-self ; ; a man mountain running to lard in his middle-age . 
Seeing me he said with real surprise , `` Well , well , ain't we honored ! 
Hardly expected the head of County Homicide up for this murder . 
You sure climbed fast , Jed . 
Rookie investigator last summer and now it's Inspector Jed . 
Took me 19 years to become Chief of our three man police force . 
Proves a college education pays off '' . 
His sarcasm was followed by a stupid grin of his thick mouth and bad teeth . 
`` I guess it helps '' , I said , paying no attention to his ribbing . 
`` Never could figure out why you ever wanted to be a cop , Jed . 
You're not only young but well , you don't even look like a police officer . 
A runt with narrow shoulders and that brush haircut hell , you'd pass for a juvenile delinquent of the hotrod set . 
In my day the first requirement for a cop was to look like the law , big and tough . 
Man , when my 275 pounds and six-four comes along , why it's the same as another badge . 
When I say move , a guy moves '' ! 
`` Don't worry about my being tough , Moore . 
Also , it's far too early in the day for corny lines like the bigger they come You've had your gassy lecture , let's get to work . 
Who was the murdered woman Mrs. Buck '' ? 
`` Widow , nice sort of woman . 
Comfortably fixed . 
Ran a fair-sized farm . 
Came to the Harbor as a bride and Don't worry Jed , this one is in the bag . 
I know the killer , have the only road off the peninsula covered '' . 
`` Yeah , passed your road block as I drove in '' , I said , sitting on his polished desk . 
Although Bob dressed like a slob , he kept a neat office . 
`` Okay , what happened '' ? 
`` About nine this morning Mrs. Buck phones me she's having trouble with one of her farm hands -- money trouble . 
Colored fellow named Tim Williams -- only hand she has working for her now . 
Tim come with the migratory workers that follow the crops up from the South last year , but Tim and his wife settled here . 
Never had no trouble with him before , thought he was a hard worker , hustling around to get a full week's work . 
Anyway , Julia asks me to . 
'' `` Julia '' ? 
`` Come on , Inspector , look alive . 
Julia Buck , the deceased '' , Moore said , slipping me his smug , idiot-grin again . 
`` Julia asks me to come out at once . 
But she didn't sound real alarmed you know , like there was any immediate danger . 
I got there at 9:47 A.M. , found her strangled . 
I would have come sooner if I'd known . 
No doubt about Tim being the killer -- I have a witness . 
Don't know why the County had to send anybody up here . 
Told them I can handle this '' . 
`` Yeah , seems you have a nice package , with all the strings tied . 
Who's '' ? 
`` I'll collar Tim before night '' . 
`` Who's your witness '' ? 
`` Julia had -- has -- an old Indian woman cooking for her -- Nellie Harris . 
Probably the last of the original Island Indians . 
Nellie was in the kitchen , had just come to work , when she heard Tim arguing with Julia in the living room . 
Swears she recognized his voice , that Tim yelled , ' It's my money and I want it ' ! 
And then rushed out of the house . 
Then she heard Julia phone me . 
Nellie went on with her house work -- until I found Julia dead . 
And before you say it , Nellie ain't near strong enough to have strangled Julia . 
There's no doubt this Tim sneaked back and killed Mrs. Buck . 
Another fact : Tim's disappeared -- on the run . 
But there's no way off the Point except through my road block . 
Guess you want to see the body -- have her up the street in Doc Abel's office '' . 
`` Let's see it '' . 
We walked up Main Street to this big white house , then around to the back . 
Being the Harbor's sole doctor , Abel was also its Medical Examiner . 
The corpse was on a table , covered by a sheet . 
Doc Abel was busy up front with some of his live patients . 
Pulling back the sheet , I examined the bruises around Julia Buck's once slender throat . 
Powerful hands had killed her . 
`` Find any prints '' ? 
Chief Moore shook his big head , seemed lost in thought as he stared at the nude body . 
Then he said , `` Never noticed it before I mean , when she was dressed but for a woman her age , Julia had a real fine figure '' . 
I dropped the sheet , glanced at my watch . 
It was almost one and I hadn't had lunch . 
Still , I wanted to get this over with , had a lot of paper work waiting in my own office . 
I told him , `` I want to go see the Buck house '' . 
`` Sure '' . 
Walking back down Main Street , I said , `` I saw the Harbor's one squad car at the road block , we'll ride out in my car '' . 
`` Naw , we'll use mine '' , Moore said , opening the door of a sleek white Jaguar roadster . 
As I slid in beside him he said , `` Some heap , hey ? 
Got a heck of a buy on this , dirt cheap '' . 
`` Yeah , it's a real load '' , I told him , looking up the street at my battered Ford . 
Five racing minutes later we pulled into the driveway of this typical two-story house , and when the Jaguar stopped I managed to swallow . 
There was a garage and a modern barn in the rear , all of it standing between two large flat fields planted in early potatoes . 
Everything shouted gentleman farming , the kind of grandfather-father-to-son folding money the Point is known for . 
The fins of a Caddy were sticking out of the garage , while the inside of the house was a comfortable mixture of old and expensive contemporary furniture . 
Nellie Harris wasn't old , she was ancient -- a tiny shriveled woman with a face like a tan prune . 
She was also stone deaf in her right ear . 
She calmly repeated what Moore had told me . 
When I asked , `` Why didn't you go into the living room to see how Mrs. Buck was '' ? 
The old gal stared at me with her hard eyes , said , `` She didn't call . 
I do the living room last . 
I went up stairs and did the bath and her bedroom -- way I always do in the morning '' . 
`` Have you any idea what this Tim and Mrs. Buck were arguing about '' ? 
`` Probably wages . 
Miss Julia was a hard woman with a dollar . 
Years ago when I asked her to put me in Social Security , so's I wouldn't have to be working now , Miss Julia threatened to fire me -- all because it would mean a few more dollars a year to her '' . 
`` Did you hear Tim return '' ? 
`` No sir . 
Nobody came until Chief Moore '' . 
I drummed on the kitchen table with my pencil . 
`` Mrs. Buck have any men friends '' ? 
`` Her '' ? 
The wrinkled mouth laughed , revealing astonishingly strong , white , teeth . 
`` I never see none . 
But then I wasn't her social secretary '' . 
`` Was she on friendly terms with other members of her family '' ? 
`` Didn't have no family -- around here . 
They had a son -- killed in the war '' . 
I walked into the living room . 
There didn't seem to be any signs of a struggle . 
I told Moore , `` Where does Tim's wife live '' ? 
`` I'll take you there . 
Look Jed , this is an open and shut case and I have to relieve my men at the road block soon . 
Okay , come on '' . 
We did 80 miles an hour across a hard dirt road to a cluster of shacks . 
In late summer migratory workers lived five and six to a room in these . 
Now they were empty , except for a cottage across the road . 
Mrs. Tim Williams was about 21 , with skin the color of bitter chocolate , and if you discounted the plain dress and worn slippers , she was startlingly pretty . 
The inside of their place was full of new furniture , five bucks down and a buck a week stuff , but all of it clean and full of the warmth of a home . 
Mrs. Williams was both sullen and frightened . 
She said she didn't know a thing -- Tim had left the house at six in the morning , as usual . 
She hadn't seen him since . 
`` Did Mrs. Buck owe him any wages '' ? 
I asked . 
`` Well , for this week , but they wasn't due 'till Saturday . 
Listen , Mr. Inspector , no matter what anybody say , my Tim didn't kill that woman ! 
Tim is a good man , hard working . 
He strong as a bull but gentle as a baby . 
Even if he angry , Tim wouldn't hurt a woman . 
He never in his life took a hand to a woman or '' `` We'll get him soon , see what he says '' , Chief Moore cut in . 
`` Does your husband have a car '' ? 
I asked . 
`` Got us an old station wagon . 
Need it for the job '' . 
I asked a silly question : `` You've no idea where your husband could be , now '' ? 
She shook her head . 
I knew she was lying . 
I stood there , staring at her for a moment -- thinking mostly of her beauty and her poverty . 
Moore said , `` Come on , Jed , I have to get to my men '' . 
On my way out I told her , `` If you should eh just happen to see your husband , get him to give himself up . 
He'll get a fair trial . 
Hiding out like this won't get him anything , except more trouble , or a bullet '' . 
`` Yes . 
I'll tell him -- if I see him '' . 
We made it back to the Harbor in less than four minutes . 
I tried not to act scared . 
That Jaguar could really barrel along . 
I told Moore I was going to eat , get some forms filled out by Doc Abel . 
Chief Moore said , `` If I don't see you when I return , see you for certain at my road block , Inspector '' . 
I had a bowl of decent chowder , phoned the Doc and he said he'd leave the death statements with his girl -- in a half hour . 
Lighting my pipe , I took a walk . 
The Harbor is a big yachting basin in the summer . 
Even now , there were several slick cruisers tied to the dock , an ocean-going yawl anchored inside the breakwater . 
There was a 34 foot Wheeler with Chief Bob's in big gold letters on its stern also tied up at the dock . 
It wasn't a new boat , about five years old , but fitted with fishing outriggers and chairs . 
I asked an old guy running a fishing station if the boat was Moore's . 
He said , `` You bet . 
Bob Moore is plumb crazy about blue fishing '' . 
I dropped into the doctor's office , picked up my forms . 
As I was walking back to the Police Station , which was in the same building with the City Hall and Post Office , I saw Mrs. Tim Williams sneaking into the back of my car . 
If she moved gracefully , she was clumsy at it . 
I got into the front seat . 
She was ' hiding ' on the floor of the back seat , the soft curves of her back and hips -- rousing lines . 
I drove out of the Harbor , turned off into a dirt road among the scrub pine trees and stopped . 
I waited a few minutes and she sat up . 
For another moment we didn't talk , then she began to weep . 
She mumbled , `` I just know that Chief Moore is out to kill my Tim '' ! 
`` Maybe . 
I never saw him so anxious before '' , I said , lighting my pipe and offering her a cigarette . 
`` Of course , it could be because this is his first murder case . 
You know where Tim is , don't you , Mrs. Williams '' ? 
She puffed on the cigarette slowly , sitting slumped against the back seat ; ; didn't answer . 
But the police have dropped the case . 
I want you to go to Pearson City and find out why -- first-hand stuff for your modern crime series . 
Take the same train Diana Beauclerk took and get there at the same time . 
Go to the same hotel and occupy the same suite -- 1105 '' . 
`` Will the hotel rent it so soon after the crime '' ? 
`` Why not ? 
The police have finished with it . 
Besides , the number of the suite hasn't been published in any newspaper . 
To the hotel people , you'll just be an innocent tourist who happens to ask for that particular suite '' . 
`` Still , they may not want to rent it '' . 
`` That's your headache . 
Once inside , keep your eyes open '' ! 
`` For what '' ! 
Alec was growing more and more skeptical . 
`` The police will have gone over every square inch of the place with a fine-tooth comb . 
The hotel people will have scoured and vacuumed it . 
Ten to one , it's even been redecorated '' ! 
`` There's always a chance they may have overlooked something '' , returned the chief . 
`` I'm betting on that chance . 
Interview the bellboy and chambermaid who waited on Beauclerk . 
Study the topography of the suite . 
Soak up local color . 
Reenact everything Beauclerk did . 
Try to imagine you're going to be murdered yourself -- between eleven p.m. and one a.m. the night you arrive '' . 
Alec smirked . 
`` Cheerful way to spend an evening '' ! 
A sudden thought wiped the smirk from his face . 
`` Suppose the murderer should return to the scene of the crime '' ! 
The chief's eyes gleamed . 
He spoke softly . 
`` That is exactly what I'm hoping for . 
After all , the murderer is still at large . 
And the key to the suite is still missing '' . 
On the train Alec refreshed his memory of the Beauclerk case by reading teletype flimsies -- spot-news stories about the crime sent out by the Pearson City Star , a member of the Syndicate Press . 
Diana Beauclerk was a second-rate actress living in New York . 
Two weeks ago she had gone west to Pearson City . 
Daniel Forbes , her divorced husband , lived there . 
So did the firm of lawyers who had got her the divorce , Kimball and Stacy . 
She reached Pearson City at nine p.m. and went straight to the Hotel Westmore . 
She telephoned the junior partner of her law firm , Martin Stacy , and asked him to call at her hotel that evening . 
At the time of her divorce Forbes had promised to pay her a lump sum in lieu of further alimony if she remarried . 
According to Stacy , she told him she was planning to remarry and she wanted him to ask Forbes for the lump sum . 
Stacy replied that it would bankrupt Forbes , who had just sunk all his money in a real estate venture . 
Stacy said he left her suite at nine forty-five p.m. . 
She was in good health and spirits , but still determined to get the money from Forbes . 
No one saw Stacy leave . 
No other visitor inquired for her that evening . 
Next morning she was found dead in her suite with a bullet from a Colt revolver in her brain . 
According to the medical examiner , she was shot between eleven p.m. and one a.m. . 
Her door was locked and the key was missing . 
So was the gun . 
When Alec finished reading he was sure that either Forbes or Stacy had killed Diana Beauclerk . 
Forbes had motive and Stacy had opportunity . 
Find a motive for Stacy or an opportunity for Forbes and the case would be solved . 
The Hotel Westmore proved to be one of the older hotels in Pearson City , and definitely second-rate . 
Alec's first impression of the lobby was gloomy , Victorian dignity -- black walnut and red plush , a black and white tiled floor , and Persian rugs . 
He studied the night clerk as a man measures an adversary . 
`` I'd like the room I had the last time '' . 
`` Certainly , sir '' . 
The clerk was young and limp , with a tired smile . 
`` Do you recall the number '' ? 
`` It was 1105 '' . 
The clerk's smile congealed . 
`` That suite is taken '' . 
Alec's glance went to a chart of guest names and room numbers hanging on the wall behind the clerk . 
Opposite the number 1105 stood one word : Unoccupied . 
The clerk's glance followed Alec's . 
`` We have better rooms vacant now '' , he babbled . 
`` Larger and more comfortable . 
At the same rate '' . 
Alec's face was dark , blunt , and sulky . 
He always looked impertinent and he could look dangerous . 
He was looking dangerous now . 
He raised his voice . 
`` Anything wrong with the plumbing in 1105 '' ? 
There was a sudden stillness in the lobby . 
Two women , who had been chattering like parrots , were struck dumb . 
A man , lighting a match for his cigar , paused until the flame burned his fingers . 
Even the bellboys on their bench were listening . 
The clerk's eyes flickered . 
`` Of course not '' ! 
`` Anybody with a contagious disease been in there '' ? 
`` No '' ! 
The clerk was almost hysterical . 
`` It's just that -- well , 1105 is being redecorated '' . 
`` I don't believe it '' . 
Alec leaned on the desk , holding the clerk's eyes with his . 
`` Suppose you tell me the real reason '' , he drawled . 
`` There might be a story in it '' . 
`` St-story '' ? 
`` I'm with the Syndicated Press , Feature Service . 
Either I get the story -- or I get the suite '' . 
It was blackmail and the clerk knew it . 
`` There is no story '' , he piped tremulously . 
`` Front ! 
Show this gentleman to 1105 '' ! 
The stillness persisted as Alec followed a bellboy across the lobby to the elevator . 
He could feel eyes on his back . 
He wished it had not been necessary to announce the number of his suite quite so publicly . 
The corridor on the eleventh floor was dimly lighted by electric globes at intervals of thirty feet . 
A thick , crimson carpet muffled every footfall . 
At the end of the corridor Alec noticed a door marked : Fire Stairs . 
It was a neat setup for murder . 
The bellboy unlocked a white door numbered 1105 . 
The room was dark but a neon sign flashed and faded beyond the window . 
A few snowflakes sifted down through that theatrical red glow , languid as falling feathers . 
Hastily the boy switched on a ceiling light . 
The room looked normal and even commonplace . 
There was no hint of a violent struggle now . 
Deal furniture with a mahogany finish was neatly arranged as if it stood in the window of a department store . 
The blue rug was suspiciously bright and new . 
It had never been stained with blood . 
Table covers and towels were clean , ashtrays empty and supplied with fresh matches . 
The mirror over the bureau was a blank eye , round and innocent . 
Alec played the part of an innocent tourist . 
`` Is there anything wrong with this room '' ? 
`` N-no '' . 
The boy dropped his eyes . 
`` Afraid you'll lose your job if you don't keep your mouth shut '' ? 
The boy raised his eyes . 
`` Listen , mister . 
If you want my advice , pack up and take the next train back to New York '' . 
`` Were you on duty here two weeks ago '' ? 
The boy hesitated . 
Then , `` I'm not talking . 
But I wouldn't spend a night in here for a million bucks '' ! 
He was in a hurry to get out of the room . 
Alec gave him a tip and let him go . 
Alone , Alec examined the doors . 
There were three -- one leading to a bathroom , one to the hall , and one to the room next door which was immovable -- locked or bolted on the other side . 
Alec locked the hall door and put the key with his watch on the bedside table . 
It was just quarter of nine . 
As he ranged his belongings on the bureau he noticed a film of white dust on the dark surface of the wood beyond the linen cover . 
Not gray like the dust that collects in an unused room , but white . 
Women didn't use white face powder nowadays , he recalled . 
They used pink , tan , or cream powder . 
Alec glanced into the bathroom . 
Blood in the bathtub where the murderer appears to have washed his hands . 
It seemed clean now , but Alec decided against a bath . 
He crawled into bed and switched off the light . 
In the darkness he could see the rosy reflection of the neon sign on the wall opposite the window . 
It winked as steadily as a metronome -- on , off -- on , off . 
In less than five minutes Alec was asleep . 
He never knew just what woke him . 
Yet suddenly he was wide-awake . 
There was no sound and apparently no movement in the room except the noiseless pulsation of the red light on the wall . 
He lay still , listening to the silence , watching the light . 
Somewhere in the city a big clock sounded twelve solemn notes -- midnight . 
According to the medical examiner she was shot between eleven p.m. and one a.m. . 
Alec heard a faint sound . 
His heart seemed to swell and knock against the wall of his chest . 
For the sound was inside the room . 
He let his eyelids droop and breathed heavily , feigning sleep . 
The sound was coming nearer . 
A monstrous shadow fell across the illuminated wall , distorted and indefinable . 
When the neon sign faded out , the shadow disappeared . 
When the neon sign flashed on , the shadow was still there . 
It stretched to an impossible height , climbing the wall to the ceiling . 
That meant that something between the light and its reflection on the wall was moving closer to the source of the light -- in this case , the window . 
Cautiously Alec tensed his muscles , ready to jump . 
The bedsprings betrayed him with a creak . 
The shadow vanished . 
Someone had moved beyond the range of the light from the window . 
Abandoning caution , Alec leaped out of bed and groped for the light switch . 
Before he could snap it on , a stinging blow caught him in the ribs . 
He lashed out blindly with his right . 
There was a thick , squashy crack of fist on flesh . 
Something hard grazed his knuckles . 
He put everything he had into the next and aimed down where the stomach ought to be . 
Rough cloth rasped his fist . 
There was a grunt , curiously inarticulate , like that of an animal in pain . 
Something heavy shook the floor as it dropped . 
Alec waited a moment , on guard . 
Nothing happened . 
Again he groped for the light switch . 
The blue rug had been rolled up and stacked in one corner of the room . 
On the bare floorboards a man lay face down . 
He had a short , heavy , powerful body . 
Alec turned him over and discovered a round , lumpy face with narrow , slanting eyes -- a primitive Tartar face from Russia or the Balkans . 
The man's shoes were too pointed , his overcoat too broad at the shoulders and too narrow at the waist . 
There was a slight bulge under the left armpit -- a shoulder holster . 
Alec promptly removed the gun . 
He was familiar with this type . 
He had seen it in the lineup at Police Headquarters in New York , in Broadway night clubs and Seventh Avenue pool rooms , in the criminal courts . 
But he was surprised to meet it here . 
Diana Beauclerk had no connection with the underworld . 
A professional gunman would not have killed her with a weapon of such small caliber as a . 
Nor would he choose a respectable hotel as the scene for a killing when it would be so much safer to take his victim for a one-way ride on a lonely country road . 
The man's eyelids fluttered . 
He opened his eyes . 
`` What are you doing here '' ? 
Demanded Alec . 
The man made no reply . 
His eyes were dazed . 
His lips were bruised and swollen where Alec had hit him . 
`` Did you kill Diana Beauclerk '' ? 
Alec expected an indignant denial , but there was no response at all . 
`` Oh , come on , snap out of it ! 
Or I'll turn you over to the police '' ! 
The silence was getting on Alec's nerves . 
The man opened his mouth , but no words came . 
Only that curious , animal grunting Alec had heard during their fight . 
`` Don't you speak English '' ? 
The man opened his mouth wider . 
A forefinger pointed toward his gullet . 
Alec leaned forward to look . 
There were hideous scars inside the throat and the palate was mutilated . 
In good time I shall get to the distressing actuality , to Red McIver and Handley Walker , to murder and sudden death . 
But you realize , I am sure , how much old deeds incite to new ones , and you must forgive me if I tell you first of the old ones . 
It was in 1814 that Abraham Wharf and his sister sat by a meager fire in their house on Dogtown Common , a desolate place even then . 
He was sharpening his razor . 
`` Sister '' , said he `` do you think people who commit suicide go to heaven '' ? 
And she answered , `` I don't know , but I hope you'll never do such a thing '' . 
Without a tremor , `` God forbid '' ! 
He said , and went out and cut his throat in the cave near Granny Day's swamp . 
What has this to do with the present ? 
Much , I assure you . 
You must know what gets into people , even such as Red and Handley , before you can tell what comes out of them . 
They had learned , both of them , about Abraham Wharf . 
That's why I beg you not to forget him . 
His ghost is not laid . 
Red and Handley , God help them , knew the old Dogtown lore ; ; and I knew they knew it , for I'd told them a lot of it . 
And isn't it true that you get a deeper perception about a man and his motives when you know what it is he knows ? 
Yes , gentlemen , I am getting to the point , to my point . 
You know the facts ; ; they are set forth in your own newspapers . 
You want from me the story , but a story is about ' why ' and then , perhaps , about how . 
The ' when ' you know ; ; yesterday morning . 
So what I am trying to tell you is the ' why ' -- that is my point -- and that concerns the spirit of the matter . 
There is an inwardness and a luster to old furniture ( look at that mahogany highboy behind you ) which has a provocative emanation , if I may say so . 
Places , too , have their haunting qualities . 
Even people . 
And my point in this sad story is the spirit of the matter . 
When you hold the spirit of a thing , then somehow you know the truth -- you know a fake antique from the real thing . 
And the truth is what you've come for , is it not ? 
Now , Dogtown is one of those places that creeps into the marrow as worms get into old wood , under the veneer . 
In fact , all the folk who lived on the back of Cape Ann , they are not just like others . 
There's a different hall-mark on them . 
There were no witch burnings here because everyone had a witch in the family . 
Just think of old Granther Stannard who pulled the teeth of Dark Younger ( her real name was Dorcas ) , and because he bungled the job and left two protruding tusks she put such a hex on him that he thought his legs were made of glass . 
After that he was never known to run or even walk fast . 
Today Dogtown is the only deserted village in all New England that I know of . 
There it sits , a small highland , with towns like Gloucester near by ; ; but now it's the most lost and tortured place in the world . 
Those who lived in that desolation of rocky deformity took on some of the moraine's stony character . 
Scientists say it is the last spewings of a great glacier , but one rather feels that only a malevolent giant could have piled up those crouching monsters of granite which still seem to preserve a sort of suspended , ominous life in them . 
We'll walk up there later . 
It's perhaps a mile from here where we sit . 
And not one single dwelling left there , though once , in the early eighteenth century , there were close to a hundred houses . 
( I myself have identified about sixty sites , from the old maps and registers . 
A fascinating pursuit , I assure you . 
) Even I can remember nothing but ruined cellars and tumbled pillars , and nobody has lived there in the memory of any living man . 
It is now a sweep of boulders and ledges , with oak , walnut and sumac creeping across the common , and everywhere the ruins and the long , long shadows . 
That's your setting , and a sinister one . 
Please get that in your reports . 
It accounts for so many things . 
Both Red McIver and Handley Walker lived nearby , almost as near as I do . 
Red lived at Lanesville , and from his house he could be up on the Common in a half hour's brisk walk ; ; Handley lived further on , at Pigeon Cove . 
I'd often find one or other of them up around Dogtown sketching . 
They were both painters , ( They were ? 
They are ? 
What should one say ? 
) Well , anyhow , Dogtown Common is so much off the beaten track nowadays that only Sunday picnickers still stray up there , from time to time . 
Sea-road , railroad , lack of water , killed Dogtown . 
Dead , dead as a brass door nail , and I sometimes feel like the Sexton , for I'm about the last to be even interested . 
I knew Red and Handley well . 
As I said , they were both painters . 
They'd come , separately , to Gloucester some twenty years ago -- there's always been an artists' colony somewhere on Cape Ann -- and each married here . 
They married cousins , Anta and Freya Norberg . 
There are a lot of Scandinavians in this neck of the woods , and many still make painted furniture and take steam-baths . 
Pretty girls among them , with blonde hair and pert faces . 
Handley married Freya and Red , of the red beard , married Anta . 
And it was because of an old Norberg inheritance that I got to understand them all so well . 
The quarrel ended in a ridiculous draw , but I must tell you about it . 
Oh , yes , I'm quite sure it's important , because of the Beech Pasture . 
What's that ? 
Why , that's what gave me the feeling , gave me as-it-were the spirit , the demoniac , evil spirit of this whole affair . 
You see , besides being custodian of antiquities , I am also registrar . 
No , I don't hold with those who live entirely among dead things . 
I know as well as the next man that a ship is called from the rigging she carries , where the live wind blows , and not from the hull . 
But you've got to know both . 
What's below the water-line interests me also . 
As I was saying , I've known all about the old records , including the old Norberg deed . 
Some ten years ago that page was torn out , I don't know by whom . 
About five years ago , Handley came to ask me if he could see the tattered register . 
He was courteous and casual about it , as though it were of no consequence . 
He's always like that , in spite of being a big man . 
( When you see him , you'll notice his habit of fingering , I might almost say , stroking a large mole with black hairs on it , by his right temple . 
) A sensual man , but very courteous , some would say slick . 
Like his glossy black hair . 
Too many outside manners , to my taste . 
He is the sort who , with an appraising eye , would cross the street to help a strange woman on to a bus and then pinch her . 
A real gentleman , I feel , would do neither . 
He's always worn a broad-brimmed hat , and I've noticed , in my small study at the Society , that he rather smells of cosmetics . 
The next week , cousin Red wandered in as casually , but curt and untidy . 
Red was small and fine-boned , like ivory-inlay . 
He too asked to see the same page . 
When I told him someone had torn it out , he shouted . 
`` By God , it's that damn Handley , the sneak '' ! 
And later in the same week they both came together to examine the register . 
Fortunately we were alone in the building -- so few people nowadays are interested even in their own past or in the lovely craft of other days -- for they began to abuse each other in the foulest language . 
Red thrusting out his tawny beard , Handley glowering under his suddenly rumpled black hair . 
They actually bristled . 
Le rouge et le noir . 
Violent men both . 
Red always was morose , yet that day the dapper Handley was the louder of the two . 
But for my presence , they would have been at each others' throats . 
During the quarrel I learned what the trouble was , from the accusations each hurled at the other . 
The Beech Pasture had suddenly become valuable . 
There's a fine granite quarry there , and granite's coming back for public buildings . 
Both men knew it was in the Norberg family holdings , but to which of the cousins did it belong , Anta or Freya ? 
Fortunately , I knew almost exactly what the will had said . 
It began with a preamble , of course . 
This explained that the judge of probate of Essex County , 1785 or 1786 , appointed three free-holders of Gloucester to divide and establish the Norberg estate . 
After the usual Honorable Sirs , it went on to say that there had been set off to the widow one full third part of the real estate of the deceased Salu Norberg , one lower room , on the Western side , privileges to the well and bake-oven and to one third of the cellar ( I can show you the cellar when we go up ) , also one Cow Right , and lastly they set off to the widow her own land that she brought with her as dower , namely the Beech Pasture . 
And I remember that the whole of the privileges , not counting the Beech Pasture , was valued at twenty pounds . 
I wish you could have seen the crests fall on these two sparring coxcombs when I told them that obviously the pasture belonged to their wives jointly . 
That battle scene , ridiculous as it was , remained in my mind . 
A disturbing picture of bad blood , to be further heightened with illicit if buccolic colors , for on a subsequent day I saw Handley escorting Anta , Red's wife , up on Dogtown Common . 
I felt it would be inopportune to disclose my presence . 
Not that I intentionally go unperceived , but the boulders up there are very high and I am a small woman . 
One other cause of jealousy between them I must tell you . 
Paint ! 
Gloomy and unkempt as Red McIver was , he was much the better painter . 
I suppose Handley knew it . 
If Red had a show at Gloucester , Handley would hurry to hang his pictures in Rockport . 
You may say this has little pertinence , but , gentlemen , remember that all this prepared my mind , alerted my intelligence . 
By such touches the pattern takes shape . 
You would call these the motives of crime . 
I would call them the patterns of life , perhaps even the designs of destiny . 
Yet with all this knowledge I had nothing of substance to unravel our case , as you would call it , till yesterday . 
One month ago , on the 20th of October , was the opening of the gunning season in Massachusetts . 
Not much to shoot , but there are a few pheasant . 
Rabbits , too , if you care for them , which most of the folk around here haven't the sense to appreciate . 
Any more than they have the sense to eat mussels . 
That was the day Red was said to have gone away . 
Oh yes , he'd talked about doing so . 
In fact , he often disappeared , from time to time , -- off to paint the sea , aboard a dragger out from Gloucester . 
Anta , his wife , never seemed to mind . 
I suppose these absences gave her more clearance for her embraces with Cousin Handley . 
Anyhow , I wasn't surprised , early that morning , to see Handley himself crossing from Dogtown Common Road to the Back Road . 
No , he didn't have his gun , which he should have . 
It would have been a good excuse for his being there at all . 
I myself had been up there by seven o'clock , after mushrooms , since there'd been a week of rain which had stopped early that morning and the day was as clear as Sandwich glass . 
That's what the man had said . 
Haney peered doubtfully at his drinking companion through bleary , tear-filled eyes . 
He had no ready answer , as much from surprise as from the fit of coughing . 
Was the man drunk or crazy or both ? 
But his new-found buddy had matched him drink for drink until he lost count , and the man's eyes were still clear . 
The guy is off his rocker , Haney thought to himself , and looked away from those eyes . 
Eyes that were clear , but also bright with a strange intensity , a sort of cold fire burning behind them . 
Why hadn't he noticed it before ? 
No , the man was not drunk He wondered how he got tied up with this stranger . 
But , of course , he remembered now . 
It was blurred , after two hours of steady drinking , but the occasion of it came back to him . 
The stranger , his head seemingly sunk in thought , started to cross the street against the light just as a huge moving van roared through the intersection . 
Brakes howled and a horn blared furiously , but the man would have been hit if Phil hadn't called out to him a second before . 
His shout had been involuntary , something anybody might have done without thinking , on the spur of the moment . 
As a matter of fact , he wouldn't have cared at all if the guy had been hit . 
Actually , he regretted having opened his mouth when the truck came to a stop and the angry driver jumped down from the cab and walked back toward them . 
By then , the stranger was thanking Haney profusely and had one arm around his shoulders as if he were an old friend . 
So the driver started to curse at both of them as if they had been in a plot together to ruin his safe-driving record . 
Then the man he saved turned and looked squarely into the truck driver's face , without saying a word . 
Very suddenly , the driver stopped swearing at them , turned on his heel and went back to his truck . 
Haney hadn't given it much thought at the time . 
Now he recalled it very clearly , and wondered what the truck driver had seen in those eyes to make him back off . 
It must have been the sort of look that can call a bluff without saying a word . 
When the light went their way , they went on across the street . 
And when the stranger found out that Phil was on the way to one of his favorite bars , he insisted on offering to buy drinks for both of them . 
Phil usually went alone and kept to himself , sitting in a corner and passing the time by nursing his favorite grudges . 
But he decided he wouldn't mind company in return for free drinks , even though he made good money at his job . 
Phil was like that . 
Now he wondered if it was worth it , having a screwball for company . 
He really didn't take the offer seriously , but he began to feel uneasy . 
When he finally got the coughing under control , he realized that Pete ( all he gave was his first name ) was still waiting for an answer -- he didn't even seem to wink as he continued to stare . 
Haney managed a weak laugh . 
`` Guess I can't think of anyone , Pete . 
Thanks anyhow '' . 
A faint crease appeared between the man's eyebrows . 
`` I think you aren't taking me seriously , Phil . 
I meant it . 
And everybody has some kind of grudge . 
I might have got hit by that truck if it wasn't for you . 
I believe in returning favors . 
I'll do anything for somebody I like . 
It won't cost you a cent , Phil . 
Go ahead and try me '' ! 
Phil rubbed his forehead wearily . 
He was beginning to feel woolly . 
Maybe it would be better to humor the guy and then make an exit . 
He really didn't expect anything to come of it , and there were a few people `` All right '' , he conceded finally , `` if you must know , I don't get along with the landlord . 
He keeps riding me because I like to listen to the radio and sing while I'm taking a bath . 
He says the neighbors complain , but I don't believe it . 
Why don't they tell me themselves if it bothers them '' ? 
The man closed his eyes and nodded . 
When he looked up again , he seemed almost contented . 
`` Fine . 
Give me your address . 
It will take a little time . 
I want to study your landlord's habits and movements first . 
You see , I always make it look like an accident . 
Maybe suicide , if it looks reasonable . 
In that way there's no trouble for the customer '' . 
Haney's eyebrows flew up . 
`` Customer '' ? 
Pete smiled modestly . 
`` It's my line of work '' , he said Five minutes later , before Haney could make his break , the stranger stood up and nodded farewell . 
Haney watched the small but wiry man slip out the door quickly and silently , and felt relieved to see that nobody else seemed to notice his departure . 
Phil decided to stay a little longer , and as time passed it seemed as if the strange little man had never been there , but for the other glass on the table . 
Some time before midnight he returned to his apartment and hit the sack , putting the whole incident out of mind before he fell asleep . 
The next day , Sunday , the hangover reminded Haney where he had been the night before . 
The hangover in turn reminded him of his conversation with the weirdy , and he groaned . 
He went for more aspirin later in the day , and passed the surly landlord on the way -- he was still alive and scowling as usual , as if tenants were a burden in his life . 
Phil shrugged and ignored him . 
He went back to work Monday . 
By Wednesday the landlord was still alive . 
Of course On Thursday , Haney mailed the monthly check for separate maintenance to his wife Lolly , and wished the stranger could do something about her Coming home from work , he was startled to see a police car parked in front of the apartment building . 
Inside the lobby , people were standing around , talking excitedly . 
His spine crawled with a foreboding premonition as he asked one of his fellow tenants what had happened . 
The landlord had died . 
Late that afternoon , it seemed , he had fallen off the roof while on some obscure errand or inspection . 
He had apparently been alone . 
Nobody witnessed the fall -- just the sickening impact when his body smashed on the pavement just outside the basement delivery entrance . 
Haney hoped that nobody noticed his sudden pallor , as he felt the blood drain from his cheeks . 
He muttered something about how terrible it was , and walked with deliberate slowness to the elevator . 
Once inside his apartment , he poured a drink with trembling hands and flopped limply in a chair . 
After a while he began to feel better about it , especially when no one bothered to ask any questions . 
But after all , why should they ? 
Still later , he finally convinced himself that it was an accident -- just a coincidence . 
The stranger really had nothing to do with it , of course Haney went to bed , happy that at least he was rid of that lousy landlord . 
After all , the man had no family , so no one suffered , and everybody was better off for it . 
Really , he said to himself , nobody kills a man just as a favor ! 
So you thought I didn't mean what I said . 
The stranger's eyes were large and sad , as if Phil Haney had hurt his feelings . 
It was like a recurrent , annoying dream , but now the dream was beginning to take on overtones of a nightmare . 
However , Haney knew it was not a dream . 
He might be very tight , but he knew where he was . 
It was the same bar , and it was two weeks later -- Saturday night , when he had an excuse to drink heavier than usual . 
He had been sitting in the usual corner at the little table , as far as possible from any talkative , friendly lushes . 
He was enjoying the weekly ritual of washing down his pet grievance with bourbon slightly moistened with water . 
This favorite grievance was not the landlord . 
He had already quite forgotten about him . 
In fact , he had only mentioned him on the spur of the moment . 
His real grievance was Lolly . 
Toward the end of his fourth hairy highball , while he was moodily making wet rings on the table-top with the bottom of the glass , he became aware that he was not alone . 
He looked up with bloodshot eyes and beheld the stranger sitting across the table , smiling a secret smile at him , as if they were fellow conspirators . 
He hadn't even noticed -- what was his name ? 
Pete ? 
-- he hadn't seen him sit down . 
The man was uncanny , like a shadow , and made as much noise as a shadow . 
Haney felt like shrinking out of sight , but he was already trapped in the corner with the wiry , dark little man . 
He began to wish that he hadn't shouted that other evening when the truck bore down through the crossing . 
Was he going to be saddled from now on with a creep for a bar-buddy ? 
He'd have to start going to some of the other places again . 
In a low voice , almost whispering , the man had asked Phil if he was happy with the way the landlord had been taken off his back . 
He made the mistake of answering in an offhand way , and instantly realized that his skepticism must have showed in his face or voice . 
Pete frowned slightly , then became sad and moody . 
Haney didn't want to encourage his company , but felt he ought to buy him a drink anyhow , to prevent possible trouble . 
But there was no trouble . 
The guy sulked over his drink , obviously upset by Haney's lack of appreciation . 
To break the uncomfortable silence , Haney began to talk . 
In time , and two drinks later , he was complaining bitterly about his wife , He was on the subject for ten minutes or so when he noticed the renewed interest in his listener -- it showed in the alert face and the suddenly bright eyes . 
When he paused to moisten his throat , the stranger broke in . 
`` But why pay her bills ? 
If she runs around with other men , and if you hate her as you say , why not just divorce her '' ? 
Haney scowled . 
`` That bitch would love a divorce '' , he growled . 
`` Then she'd get half of everything I have . 
Community property deal -- you know . 
I'd have to sell out my business to pay her off with her share . 
She can drop dead '' ! 
Pete nodded understandingly . 
`` Oh yes . 
Now I see . 
You must understand , I haven't been in this state too long . 
I came out here to retire . 
That's why I -- why I do a free job now and then . 
You should have told me about her before '' . 
Haney felt a twinge of annoyance when he heard the now familiar line again . 
Then a wild thought ran circles through his clouded brain . 
Suppose -- just suppose this guy was really what he said he was ! 
A retired professional killer If he was just a nut , no harm was done . 
But if he was the real thing , he could do something about Lolly . 
He felt very cunning , very proud of himself as he played on the other man's soft spot . 
`` No offense intended '' , he said gently . 
`` But it's just that -- well , you know . 
The cops didn't suspect a thing , and I thought it was a coincidence . 
After all , I didn't know you , Pete . 
It could have been an accident '' . 
He shrugged casually . 
`` But if you say you managed it '' The stranger was hooked . 
His eyes burned feverishly . 
`` Yes , yes '' , he muttered impatiently . 
`` Of course it looked like an accident . 
I always work it that way -- and always at a time when the customer has an alibi . 
Let me prove it , Phil . 
I think I can manage one more favor for you '' . 
He waited eagerly . 
Haney swished the liquor in the bottom of his glass . 
About halfway back Pops groped against a wall and stopped , pulled away two loosely nailed wide boards at one end , and went through . 
`` C'mon '' , he whispered ; ; `` floor level's about three feet down , so don't fall '' . 
I went through and down , into pitch darkness . 
He said , `` Jist stay still . 
I'll pull the boards back and then get us a light . 
Jist stay where you are '' . 
I jist stayed where I was while he fumbled around and then walked away . 
A moment later he struck a match and lighted a candle , and I could see . 
It was a big room , empty except for a few things of Pops's at the far end -- a wooden crate on which stood the candle , a spread out blanket , and an unrolled bindle . 
I looked back over my shoulder while I went to join him ; ; he'd hung another half of a blanket over the boarded window so no light would show through . 
I took the pint bottle from my pocket and handed it over as I sat down beside him on the spread blanket . 
`` You first '' , I said . 
He drank and handed it back . 
`` Nice place '' , I told him . 
`` Listen , I got a buddy I travel with , real nice guy named Larry . 
I know where he is , right near here . 
Could he join the party and sleep here tonight too ? 
We'll both be blowing town tomorrow so we won't be moving in on you '' . 
He hesitated a second , looking at the bottle , before he said `` Sure-sure '' , and I reassured him . 
`` He'll bring a bottle too , and I'll get another one or maybe two while I'm out . 
You can work on this one while I'm gone , kill it if you want '' . 
I took a short swallow from it myself and handed it to him . 
His `` sure-sure '' was enthusiastic this time . 
He put the bottle down . 
`` Git over by the window while there's light , an' I'll put th' candle out . 
When yuh come back I'll put it out agin till you're both inside '' . 
Charlie was waiting , leaning against a building front . 
`` Perfect set-up '' , I told him . 
`` But we got to go back to Fifth and get another bottle or two . 
On the way I'll give you the scoop '' . 
On the way I gave him the scoop . 
I bought another pint of sherry and when we got back Pops let us in in the dark , put back the blanket and then lighted the candle again . 
I introduced my friend Larry to Pops and we made ourselves comfortable . 
There was still a little , not much , left in the first bottle and we passed it around once and killed it , and Charlie opened his . 
I was reminded , amusedly , by a poem of Kenneth Patchen's called The Murder of Two Men by a Young Kid Wearing Lemon Colored Gloves , which Patchen himself read on a record against jazz background . 
The poem consisted of only two words , the word `` Wait '' , repeated over and over at irregular intervals and with different inflections , and then the word `` Now '' ! 
And a blaring final chord from the jazz group . 
This was the same , except that it was the murder of one man by two men and neither of us was wearing gloves . 
But we could wait all right ; ; there was no hurry . 
I said , `` Wait wait '' to Charlie and he grinned , digging the reference . 
We'd heard the record together once . 
The second bottle passed a few times . 
Pops was taking long ones , but not showing the effect yet . 
He seemed as drunk as when I'd first talked to him , but no drunker . 
He had a capacity ; ; if we'd really been trying to get him dead drunk we'd have had to go out for more wine . 
About halfway through the second bottle , Charlie looked at me across Pops , who was sitting between us and asked `` Now '' ? 
I said , `` Wait '' , and handed the bottle to Pops for his final drink . 
When he handed it back and I had hold of it safely , Pops was looking toward me and I said `` Now '' , to Charlie and he swung the short length of lead pipe he'd meanwhile taken from his pocket , once . 
It was a lead pipe cinch . 
There was a sound like the one you produce by flicking a watermelon with your finger , only louder , and Pops fell forward from the waist and then over sidewise . 
Out cold , if not dead ; ; and he'd never known what hit him -- he'd never known that anything had hit him . 
I reached my hand toward him to put it inside his shirt to feel for a heartbeat , but Charlie said `` Wait '' ! 
-- and said it sharply , not as in the Patchen bit , but as an order -- so I stopped my hand and looked at him . 
He was holding the piece of lead pipe out to me . 
`` We don't want to know whether he's dead , yet . 
I gauged that blow to be borderline . 
To kayo him and maybe or maybe not kill . 
You hit again about twice that hard before we know whether he's dead or not . 
That way we'll never know which of us really killed him and which was just the accomplice . 
Dig '' ? 
I dug him , I saw his point ; ; it made sense . 
I took the piece of pipe from Charlie's hand and used it , harder than he had . 
The thunk was louder , anyway , and I thought I heard bone crack . 
Charlie said , `` Good boy . 
That did it , if mine didn't . 
And we'll never know which . 
All right , now I'll give you a hand '' . 
We straightened Pops up and I made sure there was no trace of a heartbeat . 
I nodded to Charlie . 
`` Let's put him down again the way he was . 
It's a more natural position '' . 
We did that . 
`` How do you feel '' ? 
Charlie asked me . 
`` Cool '' , I told him . 
`` What do you feel '' ? 
`` Nothing . 
Well maybe I'm exaggerating . 
It was a kick , but not a big enough one for me to want to take the chance again , except for stakes . 
But let's not talk about it abstractly until we're out of here . 
Now , first question : the bottles . 
Shall we take them all with us , or leave one '' ? 
`` Take them '' , I said . 
`` If we left one we'd have to wipe it for fingerprints . 
Here's the picture we want to leave for the fuzz -- whenever the body gets found . 
This happened in the middle of a drinking bout with another bum . 
If they'd been working on a bottle or a jug he'd have taken it with him '' . 
`` Right . 
And he'd have taken the weapon with him too , so we take that . 
Now '' -- He looked around . 
`` I've been careful about fingerprints . 
How about you '' ? 
`` Same . 
There are the boards over the window , of course , but they're not painted and too rough to take prints . 
Same goes for the rough cement of the ledge . 
Besides , I doubt if the cops will even try dusting . 
They find dead winos every day , maybe they won't even autopsy him for the cause of death '' . 
`` We can't take a chance on that . 
We've got to assume they'll decide he was murdered and we've got to keep the picture consistent . 
Our hypothetical other bum who killed him would have turned out his pockets . 
Let's do that '' . 
We did that and found a dirty handkerchief , some matches and fourteen cents in change . 
We took the matches -- they were book matches and once they'd been touched might retain fingerprints -- and the change . 
We discussed the candle and decided the hypothetical other bum would have left it burning to light his way to the window and because he'd have no reason to blow it out . 
The candle had been stuck on a tin lid so it wouldn't set fire to the crate when it guttered out . 
A fire wouldn't have mattered except that it would cause Pops to be found sooner . 
He might not be found for days , even weeks , otherwise . 
We went once more over every point , then triple-checked . 
Being picked up for questioning by a cop on the way out seemed to be the only possible remaining danger , and we weren't picked up by a cop . 
In fact , nobody saw us , cop or citizen . 
Winsett is a quiet street with no taverns and was completely deserted at that hour . 
Which , if it matters , was one A.M. . 
Less than three hours ago we'd decided , in Maxine Wells's pad on Cosmo , to commit a trial murder . 
It had gone like clockwork . 
Almost too smoothly , I found myself thinking , and then told myself that was ridiculous . 
How safe is too safe ? 
Thinking like that can get you into a padded pad . 
An hour later we were back in my unpadded pad , killing what had been left of the second pint . 
We decided to leave the third one intact for tomorrow . 
Also our plans for me to commit Charlie's murder and for him to commit mine . 
But we were really going to do it . 
We shook hands on it . 
We planned ahead only one step , a rendezvous for tomorrow when we could swap notes . 
I'd tell him everything I'd learned about Seaton's habits and habitat , and he'd tell me the score on Radic . 
We made the date for two o'clock in the afternoon at Maxine Wells's pad . 
Charlie would get there early because he had the key . 
From here on in , the less Charlie and I were seen together in public , or visited one another's rooms , the better . 
I was dead tired and slept soundly , as far as I know dreamlessly . 
We met at Maxine's and decided we were set to stay as long as it took , into or even through the evening , to talk things out . 
Charlie had brought food and we'd decided on no drinks . 
I'd brought along the virgin pint from last night , but we were going to kill that only when we were through talking . 
I talked first , telling him everything I knew about Seaton and his house and domestic arrangements . 
I drew diagrams and floor plans ; ; he memorized them thoroughly and then we tore them into tiny pieces and flushed them down . 
He gave me equivalent and even more detailed dope on Radic , including diagrams -- one of the apartment building Radic lived in and one of the apartment itself . 
He'd been there several times , back when , while he and Radic had been friends , or at least not enemies . 
It didn't take us as long as we'd thought it might ; ; it was not quite six o'clock when we finished and Charlie said , `` Well , I guess that's it . 
Shall we flip a coin to see which of us goes first ? 
Or would you rather deal a hand of show-down poker or play a game of gin rummy , or what '' ? 
`` Wait a minute , Charlie '' , I said . 
`` One thing we haven't discussed , expense money . 
We'll need some at least , if only bus fare to the scene of the crime . 
And if you're as flat broke as I am , I think we'll have to take the added risk of knocking over a filling station or something before we split for one of us to set up an alibi while the other does his dirty work '' . 
He sighed . 
`` All right , I'll come clean . 
I've got a little stashed for a rainy day , and I guess this is rainy enough . 
A couple of hundred . 
If you draw the short straw I'll lend you some bread , like fifty bucks , before I take off to visit my sister in Frisco . 
Then , after I'm back , another fifty so you can put some mileage on yourself and have a solid alibi somewhere while I take care of your seat cover boy '' . 
`` Solid '' , I said . 
I took a deep breath , and the plunge . 
`` In that case , let's not draw . 
I'll go to bat first . 
You'd have to wait till Seaton's back from Mexico City and also while I set it up with Doris to have her have an alibi for D-night . 
So it wouldn't be for days or even a week before you could do anything . 
But your friend Manny can go any time '' . 
He grinned and clapped me on the shoulder . 
`` I was hoping you'd say that , Willy . 
But I wouldn't have suggested it . 
Well -- in that case , I take off tomorrow morning for Frisco . 
And , in case , I brought the money with me '' . 
Now that he knew himself to be self he was free to grok ever closer to his brothers , merge without let . 
Self's integrity was and is and ever had been . 
Mike stopped to cherish all his brother selves , the many threes-fulfilled on Mars , corporate and discorporate , the precious few on Earth -- the unknown powers of three on Earth that would be his to merge with and cherish now that at last long waiting he grokked and cherished himself . 
Mike remained in trance ; ; there was much to grok , loose ends to puzzle over and fit into his growing -- all that he had seen and heard and been at the Archangel Foster Tabernacle ( not just cusp when he and Digby had come face to face alone ) why Bishop Senator Boone made him warily uneasy , how Miss Dawn Ardent tasted like a water brother when she was not , the smell of goodness he had incompletely grokked in the jumping up and down and wailing -- Jubal's conversations coming and going -- Jubal's words troubled him most ; ; he studied them , compared them with what he had been taught as a nestling , struggling to bridge between languages , the one he thought with and the one he was learning to think in . 
The word `` church '' which turned up over and over again among Jubal's words gave him knotty difficulty ; ; there was no Martian concept to match it -- unless one took `` church '' and `` worship '' and `` God '' and `` congregation '' and many other words and equated them to the totality of the only world he had known during growing-waiting then forced the concept back into English in that phrase which had been rejected ( by each differently ) by Jubal , by Mahmoud , by Digby . 
`` Thou art God '' . 
He was closer to understanding it in English now , although it could never have the inevitability of the Martian concept it stood for . 
In his mind he spoke simultaneously the English sentence and the Martian word and felt closer grokking . 
Repeating it like a student telling himself that the jewel is in the lotus he sank into nirvana . 
Before midnight he speeded his heart , resumed normal breathing , ran down his check list , uncurled and sat up . 
He had been weary ; ; now he felt light and gay and clear-headed , ready for the many actions he saw spreading out before him . 
He felt a puppyish need for company as strong as his earlier necessity for quiet . 
He stepped out into the hall , was delighted to encounter a water brother . 
`` Hi '' ! 
`` Oh . 
Hello , Mike . 
My , you look chipper '' . 
`` I feel fine ! 
Where is everybody '' ? 
`` Asleep . 
Ben and Stinky went home an hour ago and people started going to bed '' . 
`` Oh '' . 
Mike felt disappointed that Mahmoud had left ; ; he wanted to explain his new grokking . 
`` I ought to be asleep , too , but I felt like a snack . 
Are you hungry '' ? 
`` Sure , I'm hungry '' ! 
`` Come on , there's some cold chicken and we'll see what else '' . 
They went downstairs , loaded a tray lavishly . 
`` Let's take it outside . 
It's plenty warm '' . 
`` A fine idea '' , Mike agreed . 
`` Warm enough to swim -- real Indian summer . 
I'll switch on the floods '' . 
`` Don't bother '' , Mike answered . 
`` I'll carry the tray '' . 
He could see in almost total darkness . 
Jubal said that his night-sight probably came from the conditions in which he had grown up , and Mike grokked this was true but grokked that there was more to it ; ; his foster parents had taught him to see . 
As for the night being warm , he would have been comfortable naked on Mount Everest but his water brothers had little tolerance for changes in temperature and pressure ; ; he was considerate of their weakness , once he learned of it . 
But he was looking forward to snow -- seeing for himself that each tiny crystal of the water of life was a unique individual , as he had read -- walking barefoot , rolling in it . 
In the meantime he was pleased with the warm night and the still more pleasing company of his water brother . 
`` Okay , take the tray . 
I'll switch on the underwater lights . 
That'll be plenty to eat by '' . 
`` Fine '' . 
Mike liked having light up through the ripples ; ; it was a goodness , beauty . 
They picnicked by the pool , then lay back on the grass and looked at stars . 
`` Mike , there's Mars . 
It is Mars , isn't it ? 
Or Antares '' ? 
`` It is Mars '' . 
`` Mike ? 
What are they doing on Mars '' ? 
He hesitated ; ; the question was too wide for the sparse English language . 
`` On the side toward the horizon -- the southern hemisphere -- it is spring ; ; plants are being taught to grow '' . 
`` ' Taught to grow ' '' ? 
He hesitated . 
`` Larry teaches plants to grow . 
I have helped him . 
But my people -- Martians , I mean ; ; I now grok you are my people -- teach plants another way . 
In the other hemisphere it is growing colder and nymphs , those who stayed alive through the summer , are being brought into nests for quickening and more growing '' . 
He thought . 
`` Of the humans we left at the equator , one has discorporated and the others are sad '' . 
Yes , I heard it in the news '' . 
Mike had not heard it ; ; he had not known it until asked . 
`` They should not be sad . 
Mr. Booker T. W. Jones Food Technician First Class is not sad ; ; the Old Ones have cherished him '' . 
`` You knew him '' ? 
`` Yes . 
He had his own face , dark and beautiful . 
But he was homesick '' . 
`` Oh , dear ! 
Mike do you ever get homesick ? 
For Mars '' ? 
`` At first I was homesick '' , he answered . 
`` I was lonely always '' . 
He rolled toward her and took her in his arms . 
`` But now I am not lonely . 
I grok I shall never be lonely again '' . 
`` Mike darling '' -- They kissed , and went on kissing . 
Presently his water brother said breathlessly . 
`` Oh , my ! 
That was almost worse than the first time '' . 
`` You are all right , my brother '' ? 
`` Yes . 
Yes indeed . 
Kiss me again '' . 
A long time later , by cosmic clock , she said , `` Mike ? 
Is that -- I mean , ' Do you know ' '' -- `` I know . 
It is for growing closer . 
Now we grow closer '' . 
`` Well I've been ready a long time -- goodness , we all have , but never mind , dear ; ; turn just a little . 
I'll help '' . 
As they merged , grokking together , Mike said softly and triumphantly : `` Thou art God '' . 
Her answer was not in words . 
Then , as their grokking made them ever closer and Mike felt himself almost ready to discorporate her voice called him back : `` Oh ! 
Oh ! 
Thou art God '' ! 
`` We grok God '' . 
25 . 
On Mars humans were building pressure domes for the male and female party that would arrive by next ship . 
This went faster than scheduled as the Martians were helpful . 
Part of the time saved was spent on a preliminary estimate for a long-distance plan to free bound oxygen in the sands of Mars to make the planet more friendly to future human generations . 
The Old Ones neither helped nor hindered this plan ; ; time was not yet . 
Their meditations were approaching a violent cusp that would shape Martian art for many millennia . 
On Earth elections continued and a very advanced poet published a limited edition of verse consisting entirely of punctuation marks and spaces ; ; Time magazine reviewed it and suggested that the Federation Assembly Daily Record should be translated into the medium . 
A colossal campaign opened to sell more sexual organs of plants and Mrs. Joseph ( `` Shadow of Greatness '' ) Douglas was quoted as saying : `` I would no more sit down without flowers on my table than without serviettes '' . 
A Tibetan swami from Palermo , Sicily , announced in Beverly Hills a newly discovered , ancient yoga discipline for ripple breathing which increased both pranha and cosmic attraction between sexes . 
His chelas were required to assume the matsyendra posture dressed in hand-woven diapers while he read aloud from Rig-Veda and an assistant guru examined their purses in another room -- nothing was stolen ; ; the purpose was less immediate . 
The President of the United States proclaimed the first Sunday in November as `` National Grandmothers' Day '' and urged America to say it with flowers . 
A funeral parlor chain was indicted for price-cutting . 
Fosterite bishops , after secret conclave , announced the Church's second Major Miracle : Supreme Bishop Digby had been translated bodily to Heaven and spot-promoted to Archangel , ranking with-but-after Archangel Foster . 
The glorious news had been held up pending Heavenly confirmation of the elevation of a new Supreme Bishop , Huey Short -- a candidate accepted by the Boone faction after lots had been cast repeatedly . 
L'Unita and Hoy published identical denunciations of Short's elevation , l'Osservatore Romano and the Christian Science Monitor ignored it , Times of India snickered at it , and the Manchester Guardian simply reported it -- the Fosterites in England were few but extremely militant . 
Digby was not pleased with his promotion . 
The Man from Mars had interrupted him with his work half finished -- and that stupid jackass Short was certain to louse it up . 
Foster listened with angelic patience until Digby ran down , then said , `` Listen , junior , you're an angel now -- so forget it . 
Eternity is no time for recriminations . 
You too were a stupid jackass until you poisoned me . 
Afterwards you did well enough . 
Now that Short is Supreme Bishop he'll do all right , he can't help it . 
Same as with the Popes . 
Some of them were warts until they got promoted . 
Check with one of them , go ahead -- there's no professional jealousy here '' . 
Digby calmed down , but made one request . 
Foster shook his halo . 
`` You can't touch him . 
You shouldn't have tried to . 
Oh , you can submit a requisition for a miracle if you want to make a fool of yourself . 
But , I'm telling you , it'll be turned down -- you don't understand the System yet . 
The Martians have their own setup , different from ours , and as long as they need him , we can't touch him . 
They run their show their way -- the Universe has variety , something for everybody -- a fact you field workers often miss '' . 
`` You mean this punk can brush me aside and I've got to hold still for it '' ? 
`` I held still for the same thing , didn't I ? 
I'm helping you now , am I not ? 
Now look , there's work to be done and lots of it . 
The Boss wants performance , not gripes . 
If you need a Day off to calm down , duck over to the Muslim Paradise and take it . 
Otherwise , straighten your halo , square your wings , and dig in . 
The sooner you act like an angel the quicker you'll feel angelic . 
Get Happy , junior '' ! 
Digby heaved a deep ethereal sigh . 
`` Okay , I'm Happy . 
Where do I start '' ? 
Jubal did not hear of Digby's disappearance when it was announced , and , when he did , while he had a fleeting suspicion , he dismissed it ; ; if Mike had had a finger in it , he had gotten away with it -- and what happened to supreme bishops worried Jubal not at all as long as he wasn't bothered . 
His household had gone through an upset . 
Jubal deduced what had happened but did not know with whom -- and didn't want to inquire . 
Mike was of legal age and presumed able to defend himself in the clinches . 
Anyhow , it was high time the boy was salted . 
Jubal couldn't reconstruct the crime from the way the girls behaved because patterns kept shifting -- ABC vs D , then BCD vs A or AB vs CD , or AD vs CB , through all ways that four women can gang up on each other . 
This continued most of the week following that ill-starred trip to church , during which period Mike stayed in his room and usually in a trance so deep that Jubal would have pronounced him dead had he not seen it before . 
Jubal would not have minded it if service had not gone to pieces . 
The girls seemed to spend half their time tiptoeing in `` to see if Mike was all right '' and they were too preoccupied to cook , much less be secretaries . 
Even rock-steady Anne -- Hell , Anne was the worst ! 
Absent-minded , subject to unexplained tears Jubal would have bet his life that if Anne were to witness the Second Coming , she would memorize date , time , personae , events , and barometric pressure without batting her calm blue eyes . 
The expense and time involved are astronomical . 
However , we sent a third vessel out , a much smaller and faster one than the first two . 
We have learned much about interstellar drives since a hundred years ago ; ; that is all I can tell you about them . 
`` But the third ship came back several years ago and reported '' `` That it had found a planet on which human beings could live and which was already inhabited by sentient beings '' ! 
Said Hal , forgetting in his enthusiasm that he had not been asked to speak . 
Macneff stopped pacing to stare at Hal with his pale blue eyes . 
`` How did you know '' ? 
He said sharply . 
`` Forgive me , Sandalphon '' , said Hal . 
`` But it was inevitable ! 
Did not the Forerunner predict in his Time and the World Line that such a planet would be found ? 
I believe it was on page 573 '' ! 
Macneff smiled and said , `` I am glad that your scriptural lessons have left such an impression '' . 
How could they not ? 
Thought Hal . 
Besides , they were not the only impressions . 
I still bear scars on my back where Pornsen , my gapt , whipped me because I had not learned my lessons well enough . 
He was a good impresser , that Pornsen . 
Was ? 
Is ! 
As I grew older and was promoted , so was he , always where I was . 
He was my gapt in the creche . 
He was the dormitory gapt when I went to college and thought I was getting away from him . 
He is now my block gapt . 
He is the one responsible for my getting such low M. R.'s . 
Swiftly , came the revulsion , the protest . 
No , not he , for I , and I alone , am responsible for whatever happens to me . 
If I get a low M. R. , I do so because I want it that way or my dark self does . 
If I die , I die because I willed it so . 
So , forgive me , Sigmen , for the contrary-to-reality thoughts ! 
`` Please pardon me again , Sandalphon '' , said Hal . 
`` But did the expedition find any records of the Forerunner having been on this planet ? 
Perhaps , even , though this is too much to wish , find the Forerunner himself '' ? 
`` No '' , said Macneff . 
`` Though that does not mean that there may not be such records there . 
The expedition was under orders to make a swift survey of conditions and then to return to Earth . 
I can't tell you now the distance in lightyears or what star this was , though you can see it with the naked eye at night in this hemisphere . 
If you volunteer , you will be told where you're going after the ship leaves . 
And it leaves very soon '' . 
`` You need a linguist '' ? 
Said Hal . 
`` The ship is huge '' , said Macneff , `` but the number of military men and specialists we are taking limits the linguists to one . 
We have considered several of your professionals because they were lamechians and above suspicion . 
Unfortunately '' Hal waited : Macneff paced some more , frowning . 
Then , he said , `` Unfortunately , only one lamechian linguist exists , and he is too old for this expedition . 
Therefore '' `` A thousand pardons '' , said Hal . 
`` But I have just thought of one thing . 
I am married '' . 
`` No problem at all '' , said Macneff . 
`` There will be no women aboard the Gabriel . 
And , if a man is married , he will automatically be given a divorce '' . 
Hal gasped , and he said , `` A divorce '' ? 
Macneff raised his hands apologetically and said , `` You are horrified , of course . 
But , from our reading of the Western Talmud , we Urielites believe that the Forerunner , knowing this situation would arise , made reference to and provision for divorce . 
It's inevitable in this case , for the couple will be separated for , at the least , forty years . 
Naturally , he couched the provision in obscure language . 
In his great and glorious wisdom , he knew that our enemies the Israelites must not be able to read therein what we planned '' . 
`` I volunteer '' , said Hal . 
`` Tell me more , Sandalphon '' . 
Six months later , Hal Yarrow stood in the observation dome of the Gabriel and watched the ball of Earth dwindle above him . 
It was night on this hemisphere , but the light blazed from the megalopolises of Australia , Japan , China , Southeast Asia , India , Siberia . 
Hal , the linguist , saw the glittering discs and necklaces in terms of the languages spoken therein . 
Australia , the Philippine Islands , Japan , and northern China were inhabited by those members of the Haijac Union that spoke American . 
Southern China , all of southeast Asia , southern India and Ceylon , these states of the Malay Federation spoke Bazaar . 
Siberia spoke Icelandic . 
His mind turned the globe swiftly for him , and he visualized Africa , which used Swahili south of the Sahara Sea . 
All around the Mediterranean Sea , Asia Minor , northern India , and Tibet , Hebrew was the native tongue . 
In southern Europe , between the Israeli Republics and the Icelandic-speaking peoples of northern Europe , was a thin but long stretch of territory called March . 
This was no man's land , disputed by the Haijac Union and the Israeli Republic , a potential source of war for the last two hundred years . 
Neither nation would give up their claim on it , yet neither wished to make any move that might lead to a second Apocalyptic War . 
So , for all practical purposes , it was an independent nation and by now had its own organized government ( unrecognized outside its own borders ) . 
Its citizens spoke all of the world's surviving tongues , plus a new one called Lingo , a pidgin whose vocabulary was derived from the other six and whose syntax was so simple it could be contained on half a sheet of paper . 
Hal saw in his mind the rest of Earth : Iceland , Greenland , the Caribbean Islands , and the eastern half of South America . 
Here the peoples spoke the tongue of Iceland because that island had gotten the jump on the Hawaiian-Americans who were busy resettling North America and the western half of South America after the Apocalyptic War . 
Then there was North America , where American was the native speech of all except the twenty descendants of French-Canadians living on the Hudson Bay Preserve . 
Hal knew that when that side of Earth rotated into the night zone , Sigmen City would blaze out into space . 
And , somewhere in that enormous light , was his apartment . 
But Mary would soon no longer be living there , for she would be notified in a few days that her husband had died in an accident while on a flight to Tahiti . 
She would weep in private , he was sure , for she loved him in her frigid way , though in public she would be dry-eyed . 
Her friends and professional associates would sympathize with her , not because she had lost a beloved husband , but because she had been married to a man who thought unrealistically . 
If Hal Yarrow had been killed in a crash , he must have wanted it that way . 
There was no such thing as an `` accident '' . 
Somehow , all the other passengers ( also supposed to have died in this web of elaborate frauds to cover up the disappearance of the personnel of the Gabriel ) had simultaneously `` agreed '' to die . 
And , therefore , being in disgrace , they would not be cremated and their ashes flung to the winds in public ceremony . 
No , the fish could eat their bodies for all the Sturch cared . 
Hal felt sorry for Mary ; ; he had a time keeping the tears from welling to his own eyes as he stood in the crowd in the observation dome . 
Yet , he told himself , this was the best way . 
He and Mary would no longer have to tear and rend at each other ; ; their mutual torture would be over . 
Mary was free to marry again , not knowing that the Sturch had secretly given her a divorce , thinking that death had dissolved her marriage . 
She would have a year in which to make up her mind , to choose a mate from a list selected by her gapt . 
Perhaps , the psychological barriers that had prevented her from conceiving Hal's child would no longer be present . 
Perhaps . 
Hal doubted if this happy event would occur . 
Mary was as frozen below the navel as he . 
No matter who the candidate for marriage selected by the gapt The gapt . 
Pornsen . 
He would no longer have to see that fat face , hear that whining voice `` Hal Yarrow '' ! 
Said the whining voice . 
And , slowly , feeling himself icy yet burning , Hal turned . 
There was the squat loose-jowled man , smiling lopsidedly up at him . 
`` My beloved ward , my perennial gadfly '' , said the whining voice . 
`` I had no idea that you , too , would be on this glorious voyage . 
But I might have known ! 
We seem to be bound by love ; ; Sigmen himself must have foreseen it . 
Love to you , my ward '' . 
`` Sigmen love you , too , my guardian '' , said Hal , choking . 
`` How wonderful to see your cherished self . 
I had thought we would never again speak to each other '' . 
5 the Gabriel pointed towards her destination and , under one-gee acceleration , began to build up towards her ultimate velocity , 99.1 percent of the speed of light . 
Meanwhile , all the personnel except those few needed to carry out the performance of the ship , went into the suspensor . 
Here they would lie in suspended animation for many years . 
Some time later , after a check had been made of all automatic equipment , the crew would join the others . 
They would sleep while the Gabriel's drive would increase the acceleration to a point which the unfrozen bodies of the personnel could not have endured . 
Upon reaching the desired speed , the automatic equipment would cut off the drive , and the silent but not empty vessel would hurl towards the star which was its journey's end . 
Many years later , the photon-counting apparatus in the nose of the ship would determine that the star was close enough to actuate deceleration . 
Again , a force too strong for unfrozen bodies to endure would be applied . 
Then , after slowing the vessel considerably , the drive would adjust to a one-gee deceleration . 
And the crew would be automatically brought out of their suspended animation . 
These members would then unthaw the rest of the personnel . 
And , in the half-year left before reaching their destination , the men would carry out whatever preparations were needed . 
Hal Yarrow was among the last to go into the suspensor and among the first to come out . 
He had to study the recordings of the language of the chief nation of Ozagen , Siddo . 
And , from the first , he faced a difficult task . 
The expedition that had discovered Ozagen had succeeded in correlating two thousand Siddo words with an equal number of American words . 
The description of the Siddo syntax was very restricted . 
And , as Hal found out , obviously mistaken in many cases . 
This discovery caused Hal anxiety . 
His duty was to write a school text and to teach the entire personnel of the Gabriel how to speak Ozagen . 
Yet , if he used all of the little means at his disposal , he would be instructing his students wrongly . 
Moreover , even getting this across would be difficult . 
For one thing , the organs of speech of the Ozagen natives differed somewhat from Earthmen's ; ; the sounds made by these organs were , therefore , dissimilar . 
It was true that they could be approximated , but would the Ozagenians understand these approximations ? 
Another obstacle was the grammatical construction of Siddo . 
Consider the tense system . 
Instead of inflecting a verb or using an unattached particle to indicate the past or future , Siddo used an entirely different word . 
Thus , the masculine animate infinitive dabhumaksanigalu'ahai , meaning to live , was , in the perfect tense , ksu'u'peli'afo , and , in the future , mai'teipa . 
The same use of an entirely different word applied for all the other tenses . 
Plus the fact that Siddo not only had the normal ( to Earthmen ) three genders of masculine , feminine , and neuter , but the two extra of inanimate and spiritual . 
Fortunately , gender was inflected , though the expression of it would be difficult for anybody not born in Siddo . 
The system of indicating gender varied according to tense . 
All the other parts of speech : nouns , pronouns , adjectives , adverbs , and conjunctions operated under the same system as the verbs . 
This was not , for the Angel , just a matter of running through a logical or deductive chain , or deciding on some action from some already established premise . 
No doubt the Angels could do that kind of thing as fast as any computer . 
What Gabriel was being asked to do now , however , was to re-examine all his basic assumptions , make value-judgments on them , and give them new and different powers in his mind to govern his motives . 
This is not wholly a reasoning process -- a computer cannot do it all -- and even in an Angel it takes time . 
( Or , perhaps , especially in an Angel , whose assumptions had mostly been fixed millions of years ago . 
) Being reasonably sure of the reason for the long pause , however , did not make it seem any less long to Jack . 
He had already become used to Hesperus' snapping back answers to questions almost before Jack could get them asked . 
There was nothing he could do but wait . 
The dice were cast . 
At last Gabriel spoke . 
`` We misjudged you '' , he said slowly . 
`` We had concluded that no race as ephemeral as yours could have had time to develop a sense of justice . 
Of course we have before us the example of the great races at the galactic center ; ; individually they are nearly as mortal as you -- the difference does not seem very marked to us , where it exists . 
But they have survived for long periods as races , whereas you are young . 
We shall recommend to them that they shorten your trial period by half . 
`` For now , it is clear that we were in the wrong . 
You may reclaim your property , and the penalty on Hesperus is lifted . 
Hesperus , you may speak '' . 
`` I did not perceive this essential distinction either , First-Born '' , Hesperus said at once , `` I was only practicing a concept that Jack taught me , called a deal '' . 
`` Nevertheless , you were its agent . 
Jack , what is the nature of this concept '' ? 
`` It's a kind of agreement in which each party gives something to the other '' , Jack said . 
`` We regard it as fair only when each party feels that what he has received is as valuable , or more valuable , than what he has given '' . 
His heart , he discovered , was pounding . 
`` For instance , Hesperus agreed to help me find my property , and I agreed to take him to Earth . 
Between individuals , this process is called bargaining . 
When it is done between races or nations , it is called making a treaty . 
And the major part of my mission to your nest is to make a treaty between your race and mine . 
Recovering the property was much less important '' . 
`` Strange '' , Gabriel said . 
`` And apparently impossible . 
Though it might be that we would have much to give you , you have nothing to give us '' . 
`` Hesperus and Lucifer '' , Jack said , `` show that we do '' . 
Another pause ; ; but this one was not nearly as long . 
`` Then it is a matter of pleasure ; ; of curiosity ; ; of a more alive time . 
Yes , those could be commodities under this concept . 
But you should understand , Jack , that Hesperus and Lucifer are not long out of the nursery . 
Visiting the Earth would not be an offering of worth to those of us who are older '' . 
This explained a great deal . 
`` All the more reason , then '' , Jack said , `` why we must have a treaty . 
We will gladly entertain your young and give them proper living quarters , in return for their help in running our fusion reactors . 
But we must know if this is in accordance with your customs , and must have your agreement they will not misuse the power we put in their hands , to our hurt '' . 
`` But this simply requires that they behave in accordance with the dictates of their own natures , and respect yours in turn . 
To this we of course agree '' . 
Jack felt a wave of complete elation , but in a second it had vanished without a trace . 
What Gabriel was asking was that mankind forego all its parochial moral judgments , and contract to let the Angels serve on Earth as it is in Heaven regardless of the applicable Earth laws . 
The Angels in turn would exercise similar restraints in respect for the natural preferences and natures of the Earthmen -- but they had no faintest notion of man's perverse habit of passing and enforcing laws which were contrary to his own preferences and violations of his nature . 
The simple treaty principle that Gabriel was asking him to ratify , in short , was nothing less than total trust . 
Nothing less would serve . 
And it might be , considering the uncomfortable custom the Angels had of thinking of everything in terms of absolutes , that the proposal of anything less might well amount instead to something like a declaration of war . 
Furthermore , even the highly trained law clerk who was a part of Jack's total make-up could not understand how the principle could ever be codified . 
Almost the whole experience of mankind pointed toward suspicion , not trust , as the safest and sanest attitude toward all outsiders . 
Yet there was some precedent for it . 
The history of disarmament agreements , for instance , had been unreassuringly dismal ; ; but the United States and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics nevertheless did eventually agree on an atomic bomb test ban , and a sort of provisional acceptance of each other's good intentions on this limited question . 
Out of that agreement , though not by any easy road , eventually emerged the present world hegemony of the United Nations ; ; suspicion between member states still existed , but it was of about the same low order of virulence as the twentieth-century rivalry between Arizona and California over water supplies . 
Besides , agreements `` in principle '' , with the petty details to be thrashed out later , were commonplace in diplomatic history . 
The trouble with them was that they almost never worked , and in fact an agreement `` in principle '' historically turned out to be a sure sign that neither party really wanted the quarrel settled . 
Suppose that this one were to work ? 
There was no question in Jack's mind of the good faith on one side , at least . 
If mankind could be convinced of that It was worth trying . 
In fact , it had to be tried . 
It would be at once the most tentative and most final treaty that Earth had ever signed . 
Secretary Hart had taught Jack , at least partially , to be content with small beginnings in all diplomatic matters ; ; but there was no small way to handle this one . 
He turned back to the screens , the crucial , conclusive phrase on his lips . 
But he was too late . 
He had lost his audience . 
For a moment he could make no sense at all of what he saw . 
It seemed to be only a riot of color , light and meaningless activity . 
Gradually , he realized that the pentagon of Angel elders had vanished , and that the ritual learning dance of the nursery had been broken up . 
The Angels in the nursery were zigzagging wildly in all directions , seemingly at random . 
`` Hesperus ! 
What's going on here ? 
What's happened '' ? 
`` Your brothers have been found . 
They are on their way here '' . 
`` Where ? 
I don't see them . 
The instruments don't show them '' . 
`` You can't see them yet , Jack . 
They'll be in range in a short while '' . 
Jack scanned the skies , the boards , and the skies again . 
Nothing . 
No -- there was a tiny pip on the radar ; ; and it was getting bigger rapidly . 
If that was the skiff , it was making unprecedented speed . 
Then the skiff hove into sight , just a dot of light at first against the roiling blackness and crimson streaks of the Coal Sack . 
Through the telescope , Jack could see that both spacesuits were still attached to it . 
The sail was still unfurled , though there were a good many holes in it , as Langer had predicted would be the case by now . 
It was a startling , almost numenous sight ; ; but even more awesome was the fact that it was trailing an enormous comet's-tail of Angels . 
The skiff was not heading for the nursery , however . 
It seemed unlikely that her crew , if either of them were alive , could even see the Ariadne , for they were passing her at a distance of nearly a light-year . 
And there would be no chance of signaling them -- without the Nernst generator Jack could not send a call powerful enough to get through all the static , and by the time he could rebuild his fusion power the skiff would be gone . 
Fuming , helpless , he watched them pass him . 
The sail , ragged though it was , still had enough surface to catch some of the ocean of power being poured out from the nursery stars . 
He would never have believed , without seeing it , that the bizarre little vessel could go so fast . 
But where was it going ? 
And why was it causing so much agitation among the Angels , and being followed by so many of them ? 
There was only one possible answer , but Jack's horrified mind refused to believe it until he had fed the radar plots of the skiff's course into the computer . 
The curve on the card the computer spat back at him couldn't be argued with , however . 
The skiff was headed for the very center of the nebula -- toward that place which , Jack knew now , could hold nothing less important than the very core of the Angel's life and religion . 
It was clear that Langer had at last found a way to attract the Angel's attention . 
It was equally clear that as of this moment , the treaty was off . 
Stern chase 10 Langer would have to be headed off , whether he knew where he was going or not . 
Almost surely he did ; ; after all , he had had the same set of facts as Jack had had to work from , and he was an almost frighteningly observant man . 
But not having talked to the Angels , he had made a wrong turn in his reasoning somewhere along the line . 
Had he decided , perhaps , that the center of the cloud was a center of government , instead of a center of life and faith '' ? 
But it didn't matter now whether he meant to invade the Holy of Holies , or was simply headed in that direction by accident . 
If it was intentional , it was now also unnecessary ; ; and whether intentional or not , the outcome would be disastrous . 
Jack crawled under the boards and restored the six feet of lead line he had excised from the Nernst generator switch . 
When he was back on his feet again and about to reinstall the fuses , however , he hesitated . 
He had to have fusion power to catch up with the skiff , and he had to have it fast . 
But fusion power in the Coal Sack was what had triggered all the trouble in the first place -- and he already had an Angel aboard . 
`` Hesperus '' ? 
`` Receiving '' . 
`` I'm going to turn my generator back on , as I promised to do . 
But I can't take you to Earth yet . 
First I've got to intercept my brothers before they get any deeper into trouble . 
Will you obstruct this , or will you help ? 
I know it's not part of the bargain , and your elders might not like it '' . 
`` Nobody else can live in your hearth while I am in it '' , Hesperus said promptly . 
`` As for my elders , they have already admitted that they were wrong . 
If because of this incident they become angry with Earth , I will not be permitted to go there at all . 
Therefore of course I will help '' . 
With a short-lived sigh of relief , Jack plugged the fuses back in and threw the switch . 
Without an instant's transition , the green light that meant full fusion power winked on the board . 
Always before , it had taken five minutes to -- Of course . 
Hesperus was in there . 
From here on out , the Ariadne was going to be hotter than any space cruiser man had ever dreamed of . 
But since he had failed to anticipate it , he lost the five minutes anyhow , in plotting an intercept orbit . 
`` Hesperus , don't use this t-tau vector trick of yours , please . 
Ryan hefted his bulk up and supported it on one elbow . 
He rubbed his eyes sleepily with one huge paw . 
`` Ekstrohm , Nogol , you guys okay '' ? 
`` Nothing wrong with me that couldn't be cured '' , Nogol said . 
He didn't say what would cure him ; ; he had been explaining all during the trip what he needed to make him feel like himself . 
His small black eyes darted inside the olive oval of his face . 
`` Ekstrohm '' ? 
Ryan insisted . 
`` Okay '' . 
`` Well , let's take a ground-level look at the country around here '' . 
The facsiport rolled open on the landscape . 
A range of bluffs hugged the horizon , the color of decaying moss . 
Above them , the sky was the black of space , or the almost equal black of the winter sky above Minneapolis , seen against neon-lit snow . 
That cold , empty sky was full of fire and light . 
It seemed almost a magnification of the Galaxy itself , of the Milky Way , blown up by some master photographer . 
This fiery swath was actually only a belt of minor planets , almost like the asteroid belt in the original Solar System . 
These planets were much bigger , nearly all capable of holding an atmosphere . 
But to the infuriation of scientists , for no known reason not all of them did . 
This would be the fifth mapping expedition to the planetoids of Yancy-6 in three generations . 
They lay months away from the nearest Earth star by jump drive , and no one knew what they were good for , although it was felt that they would probably be good for something if it could only be discovered -- much like the continent of Antarctica in ancient history . 
`` How can a planet with so many neighbors be so lonely '' ? 
Ryan asked . 
He was the captain , so he could ask questions like that . 
`` Some can be lonely in a crowd '' , Nogol said elaborately . 
`` What will we need outside , Ryan '' ? 
Ekstrohm asked . 
`` No helmets '' , the captain answered . 
`` We can breathe out there , all right . 
It just won't be easy . 
This old world lost all of its helium and trace gases long ago . 
Nitrogen and oxygen are about it '' . 
`` Ryan , look over there '' , Nogol said . 
`` Animals . 
Ringing the ship . 
Think they're intelligent , maybe hostile '' ? 
`` I think they're dead '' , Ekstrohm interjected quietly . 
`` I get no readings from them at all . 
Sonic , electronic , galvanic -- all blank . 
According to these needles , they're stone dead '' . 
`` Ekstrohm , you and I will have a look '' , Ryan said . 
`` You hold down the fort , Nogol . 
Take it easy '' . 
`` Easy '' , Nogol confirmed . 
`` I heard a story once about a rookie who got excited when the captain stepped outside and he couldn't get an encephalographic reading on him . 
Me , I know the mind of an officer works in a strange and unfathomable manner '' . 
`` I'm not worried about you mis-reading the dials , Nogol , just about a lug like you reading them at all . 
Remember , when the little hand is straight up that's negative . 
Positive results start when it goes towards the hand you use to make your mark '' . 
`` But I'm ambidextrous '' . 
Ryan told him what he could do then . 
Ekstrohm smiled , and followed the captain through the airlock with only a glance at the lapel gauge on his coverall . 
The strong negative field his suit set up would help to repel bacteria and insects . 
Actually , the types of infection that could attack a warm-blooded mammal were not infinite , and over the course of the last few hundred years adequate defenses had been found for all basic categories . 
He wasn't likely to come down with hot chills and puzzling striped fever . 
They ignored the ladder down to the planet surface and , with only a glance at the seismological gauge to judge surface resistance , dropped to the ground . 
It was day , but in the thin atmosphere contrasts were sharp between light and shadow . 
They walked from midnight to noon , noon to midnight , and came to the beast sprawled on its side . 
Ekstrohm nudged it with a boot . 
`` Hey , this is pretty close to a wart-hog '' . 
`` Uh-huh '' , Ryan admitted . 
`` One of the best matches I've ever found . 
Well , it has to happen . 
Statistical average and all . 
Still , it sometimes gives you a creepy feeling to find a rabbit or a snapping turtle on some strange world . 
It makes you wonder if this exploration business isn't all some big joke , and somebody has been everywhere before you even started '' . 
The surveyor looked sidewise at the captain . 
The big man seldom gave out with such thoughts . 
Ekstrohm cleared his throat . 
`` What shall we do with this one ? 
Dissect it '' ? 
Ryan nudged it with his toe , following Ekstrohm's example . 
`` I don't know , Stormy . 
It sure as hell doesn't look like any dominant intelligent species to me . 
No hands , for one thing . 
Of course , that's not definite proof '' . 
`` No , it isn't '' , Ekstrohm said . 
`` I think we'd better let it lay until we get a clearer picture of the ecological setup around here . 
In the meantime , we might be thinking on the problem all these dead beasts represent . 
What killed them '' ? 
`` It looks like we did , when we made blastdown '' . 
`` But what about our landing was lethal to the creatures '' ? 
`` Radiation '' ? 
Ekstrohm suggested . 
`` The planet is very low in radiation from mineral deposits , and the atmosphere seems to shield out most of the solar output . 
Any little dose of radiation might knock off these critters '' . 
`` I don't know about that . 
Maybe it would work the other way . 
Maybe because they have had virtually no radioactive exposure and don't have any R's stored up , they could take a lot without harm '' . 
`` Then maybe it was the shockwave we set up . 
Or maybe it's sheer xenophobia . 
They curl up and die at the sight of something strange and alien -- like a spaceship '' . 
`` Maybe '' , the captain admitted . 
`` At this stage of the game anything could be possible . 
But there's one possibility I particularly don't like '' . 
`` And that is '' ? 
`` Suppose it was not us that killed these aliens . 
Suppose it is something right on the planet , native to it . 
I just hope it doesn't work on Earthmen too . 
These critters went real sudden '' . 
Ekstrohm lay in his bunk and thought , the camp is quiet . 
The Earthmen made camp outside the spaceship . 
There was no reason to leave the comfortable quarters inside the ship , except that , faced with a possibility of sleeping on solid ground , they simply had to get out . 
The camp was a cluster of aluminum bubbles , ringed with a spy web to alert the Earthmen to the approach of any being . 
Each man had a bubble to himself , privacy after the long period of enforced intimacy on board the ship . 
Ekstrohm lay in his bunk and listened to the sounds of the night on Yancey-6 138 . 
There was a keening of wind , and a cracking of the frozen ground . 
Insects there were on the world , but they were frozen solid during the night , only to revive and thaw in the morning sun . 
The bunk he lay on was much more uncomfortable than the acceleration couches on board . 
Yet he knew the others were sleeping more soundly , now that they had renewed their contact with the matter that had birthed them to send them riding high vacuum . 
Ekstrohm was not asleep . 
Now there could be an end to pretending . 
He threw off the light blanket and swung his feet off the bunk , to the floor . 
Ekstrohm stood up . 
There was no longer any need to hide . 
But what was there to do ? 
What had changed for him ? 
He no longer had to lie in his bunk all night , his eyes closed , pretending to sleep . 
In privacy he could walk around , leave the light on , read . 
It was small comfort for insomnia . 
Ekstrohm never slept . 
Some doctors had informed him he was mistaken about this . 
Actually , they said , he did sleep , but so shortly and fitfully that he forgot . 
Others admitted he was absolutely correct -- he never slept . 
His body processes only slowed down enough for him to dispell fatigue poisons . 
Occasionally he fell into a waking , gritty-eyed stupor ; ; but he never slept . 
Never at all . 
Naturally , he couldn't let his shipmates know this . 
Insomnia would ground him from the Exploration Service , on physiological if not psychological grounds . 
He had to hide it . 
Over the years , he had had buddies in space in whom he thought he could confide . 
The buddies invariably took advantage of him . 
Since he couldn't sleep anyway , he might as well stand their watches for them or write their reports . 
Where the hell did he get off threatening to report any laxness on their part to the captain ? 
A man with insomnia had better avoid bad dreams of that kind if he knew what was good for him . 
Ekstrohm had to hide his secret . 
In a camp , instead of shipboard , hiding the secret was easier . 
But the secret itself was just as hard . 
Ekstrohm picked up a lightweight no-back from the ship's library , a book by Bloch , the famous twentieth century expert on sex . 
He scanned a few lines on the social repercussions of a celebrated nineteenth century sex murderer , but he couldn't seem to concentrate on the weighty , pontifical , ponderous style . 
On impulse , he flipped up the heat control on his coverall and slid back the hatch of the bubble . 
Ekstrohm walked through the alien glass and looked up at the unfamiliar constellations , smelling the frozen sterility of the thin air . 
Behind him , his mates stirred without waking . 
Ekstrohm was startled in the morning by a banging on the hatch of his bubble . 
It took him a few seconds to put his thoughts in order , and then he got up from the bunk where he had been resting , sleeplessly . 
The angry burnt-red face of Ryan greeted him . 
`` Okay , Stormy , this isn't the place for fun and games . 
What did you do with them '' ? 
`` Do with what '' ? 
`` The dead beasties . 
All the dead animals laying around the ship '' . 
`` What are you talking about , Ryan ? 
What do you think I did with them '' ? 
`` I don't know . 
All I know is that they are gone '' . 
`` Gone '' ? 
Ekstrohm shouldered his way outside and scanned the veldt . 
There was no ring of animal corpses . 
Nothing . 
Nothing but wispy grass whipping in the keen breeze . 
`` I'll be damned '' , Ekstrohm said . 
`` You are right now , buddy . 
ExPe doesn't like anybody mucking up primary evidence '' . 
`` Where do you get off , Ryan '' ? 
Ekstrohm demanded . 
`` Why pick me for your patsy ? 
This has got to be some kind of local phenomenon . 
Why accuse a shipmate of being behind this '' ? 
`` Listen , Ekstrohm , I want to give you the benefit of every doubt . 
But you aren't exactly the model of a surveyor , you know . 
You've been riding on a pink ticket for six years , you know that '' . 
`` No '' , Ekstrohm said , `` No , I didn't know that '' . 
`` You've been hiding things from me and Nogol every jump we've made with you . 
Now comes this ! 
It fits the pattern of secrecy and stealth you've been involved in '' . 
`` What could I do with your lousy dead bodies ? 
What would I want with them '' ? 
`` All I know is that you were outside the bubbles last night , and you were the only sentient being who came in or out of our alarm web . 
The tapes show that . 
Now all the bodies are missing , like they got up and walked away '' . 
It was not a new experience to Ekstrohm . 
No . 
Suspicion wasn't new to him at all . 
`` Ryan , there are other explanations for the disappearance of the bodies . 
Look for them , will you ? 
I give you my word I'm not trying to pull some stupid kind of joke , or to deliberately foul up the expedition . 
Take my word , can't you '' ? 
Ryan shook his head . 
`` I don't think I can . 
There's still such a thing as mental illness . 
You may not be responsible '' . 
Ekstrohm scowled . 
`` Don't try anything violent , Stormy . 
I outweigh you fifty pounds and I'm fast for a big man '' . 
`` I wasn't planning on jumping you . 
Why do you have to jump me the first time something goes wrong ? 
She lived and was given a name . 
Helva . 
For her first three vegetable months she waved her crabbed claws , kicked weakly with her clubbed feet and enjoyed the usual routine of the infant . 
She was not alone for there were three other such children in the big city's special nursery . 
Soon they all were removed to Central Laboratory School where their delicate transformation began . 
One of the babies died in the initial transferral but of Helva's `` class '' , seventeen thrived in the metal shells . 
Instead of kicking feet , Helva's neural responses started her wheels ; ; instead of grabbing with hands , she manipulated mechanical extensions . 
As she matured , more and more neural synapses would be adjusted to operate other mechanisms that went into the maintenance and running of a space ship . 
For Helva was destined to be the `` brain '' half of a scout ship , partnered with a man or a woman , whichever she chose , as the mobile half . 
She would be among the elite of her kind . 
Her initial intelligence tests registered above normal and her adaptation index was unusually high . 
As long as her development within her shell lived up to expectations , and there were no side-effects from the pituitary tinkering , Helva would live a rewarding , rich and unusual life , a far cry from what she would have faced as an ordinary , `` normal '' being . 
However , no diagram of her brain patterns , no early I.Q. tests recorded certain essential facts about Helva that Central must eventually learn . 
They would have to bide their official time and see , trusting that the massive doses of shell-psychology would suffice her , too , as the necessary bulwark against her unusual confinement and the pressures of her profession . 
A ship run by a human brain could not run rogue or insane with the power and resources Central had to build into their scout ships . 
Brain ships were , of course , long past the experimental stages . 
Most babes survived the techniques of pituitary manipulation that kept their bodies small , eliminating the necessity of transfers from smaller to larger shells . 
And very , very few were lost when the final connection was made to the control panels of ship or industrial combine . 
Shell people resembled mature dwarfs in size whatever their natal deformities were , but the well-oriented brain would not have changed places with the most perfect body in the Universe . 
So , for happy years , Helva scooted around in her shell with her classmates , playing such games as Stall , Power-Seek , studying her lessons in trajectory , propulsion techniques , computation , logistics , mental hygiene , basic alien psychology , philology , space history , law , traffic , codes : all the et ceteras that eventually became compounded into a reasoning , logical , informed citizen . 
Not so obvious to her , but of more importance to her teachers , Helva ingested the precepts of her conditioning as easily as she absorbed her nutrient fluid . 
She would one day be grateful to the patient drone of the sub-conscious-level instruction . 
Helva's civilization was not without busy , do-good associations , exploring possible inhumanities to terrestrial as well as extraterrestrial citizens . 
One such group got all incensed over shelled `` children '' when Helva was just turning fourteen . 
When they were forced to , Central Worlds shrugged its shoulders , arranged a tour of the Laboratory Schools and set the tour off to a big start by showing the members case histories , complete with photographs . 
Very few committees ever looked past the first few photos . 
Most of their original objections about `` shells '' were overridden by the relief that these hideous ( to them ) bodies were mercifully concealed . 
Helva's class was doing Fine Arts , a selective subject in her crowded program . 
She had activated one of her microscopic tools which she would later use for minute repairs to various parts of her control panel . 
Her subject was large -- a copy of the Last Supper -- and her canvas , small -- the head of a tiny screw . 
She had tuned her sight to the proper degree . 
As she worked she absentmindedly crooned , producing a curious sound . 
Shell people used their own vocal cords and diaphragms but sound issued through microphones rather than mouths . 
Helva's hum then had a curious vibrancy , a warm , dulcet quality even in its aimless chromatic wanderings . 
`` Why , what a lovely voice you have '' , said one of the female visitors . 
Helva `` looked '' up and caught a fascinating panorama of regular , dirty craters on a flaky pink surface . 
Her hum became a gurgle of surprise . 
She instinctively regulated her `` sight '' until the skin lost its cratered look and the pores assumed normal proportions . 
`` Yes , we have quite a few years of voice training , madam '' , remarked Helva calmly . 
`` Vocal peculiarities often become excessively irritating during prolonged intra-stellar distances and must be eliminated . 
I enjoyed my lessons '' . 
Although this was the first time that Helva had seen unshelled people , she took this experience calmly . 
Any other reaction would have been reported instantly . 
`` I meant that you have a nice singing voice dear '' , the lady amended . 
`` Thank you . 
Would you like to see my work '' ? 
Helva asked , politely . 
She instinctively sheered away from personal discussions but she filed the comment away for further meditation . 
`` Work '' ? 
Asked the lady . 
`` I am currently reproducing the Last Supper on the head of a screw '' . 
`` No , I say '' , the lady twittered . 
Helva turned her vision back to magnification and surveyed her copy critically . 
`` Of course , some of my color values do not match the old Master's and the perspective is faulty but I believe it to be a fair copy '' . 
The lady's eyes , unmagnified , bugged out . 
`` Oh , I forget '' , and Helva's voice was really contrite . 
If she could have blushed , she would have . 
`` You people don't have adjustable vision '' . 
The monitor of this discourse grinned with pride and amusement as Helva's tone indicated pity for the unfortunate . 
`` Here , this will help '' , suggested Helva , substituting a magnifying device in one extension and holding it over the picture . 
In a kind of shock , the ladies and gentlemen of the committee bent to observe the incredibly copied and brilliantly executed Last Supper on the head of a screw . 
`` Well '' , remarked one gentleman who had been forced to accompany his wife , `` the good Lord can eat where angels fear to tread '' . 
`` Are you referring , sir '' , asked Helva politely , `` to the Dark Age discussions of the number of angels who could stand on the head of a pin '' ? 
`` I had that in mind '' . 
`` If you substitute ' atom ' for ' angel ' , the problem is not insoluble , given the metallic content of the pin in question '' . 
`` Which you are programed to compute '' ? 
`` Of course '' . 
`` Did they remember to program a sense of humor , as well , young lady '' ? 
`` We are directed to develop a sense of proportion , sir , which contributes the same effect '' . 
The good man chortled appreciatively and decided the trip was worth his time . 
If the investigation committee spent months digesting the thoughtful food served them at the Laboratory School , they left Helva with a morsel as well . 
`` Singing '' as applicable to herself required research . 
She had , of course , been exposed to and enjoyed a music appreciation course which had included the better known classical works such as `` Tristan und Isolde '' , `` Candide '' , `` Oklahoma '' , `` Nozze de Figaro '' , the atomic age singers , Eileen Farrell , Elvis Presley and Geraldine Todd , as well as the curious rhythmic progressions of the Venusians , Capellan visual chromatics and the sonic concerti of the Altairians . 
But `` singing '' for any shell person posed considerable technical difficulties to be overcome . 
Shell people were schooled to examine every aspect of a problem or situation before making a prognosis . 
Balanced properly between optimism and practicality , the nondefeatist attitude of the shell people led them to extricate themselves , their ships and personnel , from bizarre situations . 
Therefore to Helva , the problem that she couldn't open her mouth to sing , among other restrictions , did not bother her . 
She would work out a method , by-passing her limitations , whereby she could sing . 
She approached the problem by investigating the methods of sound reproduction through the centuries , human and instrumental . 
Her own sound production equipment was essentially more instrumental than vocal . 
Breath control and the proper enunciation of vowel sounds within the oral cavity appeared to require the most development and practice . 
Shell people did not , strictly speaking , breathe . 
For their purposes , oxygen and other gases were not drawn from the surrounding atmosphere through the medium of lungs but sustained artificially by solution in their shells . 
After experimentation , Helva discovered that she could manipulate her diaphragmic unit to sustain tone . 
By relaxing the throat muscles and expanding the oral cavity well into the frontal sinuses , she could direct the vowel sounds into the most felicitous position for proper reproduction through her throat microphone . 
She compared the results with tape recordings of modern singers and was not unpleased although her own tapes had a peculiar quality about them , not at all unharmonious , merely unique . 
Acquiring a repertoire from the Laboratory library was no problem to one trained to perfect recall . 
She found herself able to sing any role and any song which struck her fancy . 
It would not have occurred to her that it was curious for a female to sing bass , baritone , tenor , alto , mezzo , soprano and coloratura as she pleased . 
It was , to Helva , only a matter of the correct reproduction and diaphragmic control required by the music attempted . 
If the authorities remarked on her curious avocation , they did so among themselves . 
Shell people were encouraged to develop a hobby so long as they maintained proficiency in their technical work . 
On the anniversary of her sixteenth year in her shell , Helva was unconditionally graduated and installed in her ship , the Aj . 
Her permanent titanium shell was recessed behind an even more indestructible barrier in the central shaft of the scout ship . 
The neural , audio , visual and sensory connections were made and sealed . 
Her extendibles were diverted , connected or augmented and the final , delicate-beyond-description brain taps were completed while Helva remained anesthetically unaware of the proceedings . 
When she awoke , she was the ship . 
Her brain and intelligence controlled every function from navigation to such loading as a scout ship of her class needed . 
She could take care of herself and her ambulatory half , in any situation already recorded in the annals of Central Worlds and any situation its most fertile minds could imagine . 
Her first actual flight , for she and her kind had made mock flights on dummy panels since she was eight , showed her complete mastery of the techniques of her profession . 
She was ready for her great adventures and the arrival of her mobile partner . 
There were nine qualified scouts sitting around collecting base pay the day Helva was commissioned . 
There were several missions which demanded instant attention but Helva had been of interest to several department heads in Central for some time and each man was determined to have her assigned to his section . 
Consequently no one had remembered to introduce Helva to the prospective partners . 
The ship always chose its own partner . 
Had there been another `` brain '' ship at the Base at the moment , Helva would have been guided to make the first move . 
As it was , while Central wrangled among itself , Robert Tanner sneaked out of the pilots' barracks , out to the field and over to Helva's slim metal hull . 
`` Hello , anyone at home '' ? 
Tanner wisecracked . 
`` Of course '' , replied Helva logically , activating her outside scanners . 
`` Are you my partner '' ? 
She asked hopefully , as she recognized the Scout Service uniform . 
`` All you have to do is ask '' , he retorted hopefully . 
`` No one has come . 
I thought perhaps there were no partners available and I've had no directives from Central '' . 
Even to herself Helva sounded a little self-pitying but the truth was she was lonely , sitting on the darkened field . 
Always she had had the company of other shells and more recently , technicians by the score . 
The sudden solitude had lost its momentary charm and become oppressive . 
`` No directives from Central is scarcely a cause for regret , but there happen to be eight other guys biting their fingernails to the quick just waiting for an invitation to board you , you beautiful thing '' . 
It would have killed you in the cabin . 
Do you have anything for me '' ? 
Mercer stammered , not knowing what B'dikkat meant , and the two-nosed man answered for him , `` I think he has a nice baby head , but it isn't big enough for you to take yet '' . 
Mercer never noticed the needle touch his arm . 
B'dikkat had turned to the next knot of people when the super-condamine hit Mercer . 
He tried to run after B'dikkat , to hug the lead spacesuit , to tell B'dikkat that he loved him . 
He stumbled and fell , but it did not hurt . 
The many-bodied girl lay near him . 
Mercer spoke to her . 
`` Isn't it wonderful ? 
You're beautiful , beautiful , beautiful . 
I'm so happy to be here '' . 
The woman covered with growing hands came and sat beside them . 
She radiated warmth and good fellowship . 
Mercer thought that she looked very distinguished and charming . 
He struggled out of his clothes . 
It was foolish and snobbish to wear clothing when none of these nice people did . 
The two women babbled and crooned at him . 
With one corner of his mind he knew that they were saying nothing , just expressing the euphoria of a drug so powerful that the known universe had forbidden it . 
With most of his mind he was happy . 
He wondered how anyone could have the good luck to visit a planet as nice as this . 
He tried to tell the Lady Da , but the words weren't quite straight . 
A painful stab hit him in the abdomen . 
The drug went after the pain and swallowed it . 
It was like the cap in the hospital , only a thousand times better . 
The pain was gone , though it had been crippling the first time . 
He forced himself to be deliberate . 
He rammed his mind into focus and said to the two ladies who lay pinkly nude beside him in the desert , `` That was a good bite . 
Maybe I will grow another head . 
That would make B'dikkat happy '' ! 
The Lady Da forced the foremost of her bodies in an upright position . 
Said she , `` I'm strong , too . 
I can talk . 
Remember , man , remember . 
People never live forever . 
We can die , too , we can die like real people . 
I do so believe in death '' ! 
Mercer smiled at her through his happiness . 
`` Of course you can . 
But isn't this nice '' With this he felt his lips thicken and his mind go slack . 
He was wide awake , but he did not feel like doing anything . 
In that beautiful place , among all those companionable and attractive people , he sat and smiled . 
B'dikkat was sterilizing his knives . 
Mercer wondered how long the super-condamine had lasted him . 
He endured the ministrations of the dromozoa without screams or movement . 
The agonies of nerves and itching of skin were phenomena which happened somewhere near him , but meant nothing . 
He watched his own body with remote , casual interest . 
The Lady Da and the hand-covered woman stayed near him . 
After a long time the half-man dragged himself over to the group with his powerful arms . 
Having arrived he blinked sleepily and friendlily at them , and lapsed back into the restful stupor from which he had emerged . 
Mercer saw the sun rise on occasion , closed his eyes briefly , and opened them to see stars shining . 
Time had no meaning . 
The dromozoa fed him in their mysterious way ; ; the drug canceled out his needs for cycles of the body . 
At last he noticed a return of the inwardness of pain . 
The pains themselves had not changed ; ; he had . 
He knew all the events which could take place on Shayol . 
He remembered them well from his happy period . 
Formerly he had noticed them -- now he felt them . 
He tried to ask the Lady Da how long they had had the drug , and how much longer they would have to wait before they had it again . 
She smiled at him with benign , remote happiness ; ; apparently her many torsos , stretched out along the ground , had a greater capacity for retaining the drug than did his body . 
She meant him well , but was in no condition for articulate speech . 
The half-man lay on the ground , arteries pulsating prettily behind the half-transparent film which protected his abdominal cavity . 
Mercer squeezed the man's shoulder . 
The half-man woke , recognized Mercer and gave him a healthily sleepy grin . 
`` ' A good morrow to you , my boy . 
That's out of a play . 
Did you ever see a play '' ? 
`` You mean a game with cards '' ? 
`` No '' , said the half-man , `` a sort of eye-machine with real people doing the figures '' . 
`` I never saw that '' , said Mercer , `` but I '' -- `` But you want to ask me when B'dikkat is going to come back with the needle '' . 
`` Yes '' , said Mercer , a little ashamed of his obviousness . 
`` Soon '' , said the half-man . 
That's why I think of plays . 
We all know what is going to happen . 
We all know when it is going to happen . 
We all know what the dummies will do '' -- he gestured at the hummocks in which the decorticated men were cradled -- `` and we all know what the new people will ask . 
But we never know how long a scene is going to take '' . 
`` What's a ' scene ' '' ? 
Asked Mercer . 
`` Is that the name for the needle '' ? 
The half-man laughed with something close to real humor . 
`` No , no , no . 
You've got the lovelies on the brain . 
A scene is just a part of a play . 
I mean we know the order in which things happen , but we have no clocks and nobody cares enough to count days or to make calendars and there's not much climate here , so none of us know how long anything takes . 
The pain seems short and the pleasure seems long . 
I'm inclined to think that they are about two Earth-weeks each '' . 
Mercer did not know what an `` Earth-week '' was , since he had not been a well-read man before his conviction , but he got nothing more from the half-man at that time . 
The half-man received a dromozootic implant , turned red in the face , shouted senselessly at Mercer , `` Take it out , you fool ! 
Take it out of me '' ! 
When Mercer looked on helplessly , the half-man twisted over on his side , his pink dusty back turned to Mercer , and wept hoarsely and quietly to himself . 
Mercer himself could not tell how long it was before B'dikkat came back . 
It might have been several days . 
It might have been several months . 
Once again B'dikkat moved among them like a father ; ; once again they clustered like children . 
This time B'dikkat smiled pleasantly at the little head which had grown out of Mercer's thigh -- a sleeping child's head , covered with light hair on top and with dainty eyebrows over the resting eyes . 
Mercer got the blissful needle . 
When B'dikkat cut the head from Mercer's thigh , he felt the knife grinding against the cartilage which held the head to his own body . 
He saw the child-face grimace as the head was cut ; ; he felt the far , cool flash of unimportant pain , as B'dikkat dabbed the wound with a corrosive antiseptic which stopped all bleeding immediately . 
The next time it was two legs growing from his chest . 
Then there had been another head beside his own . 
Or was that after the torso and legs , waist to toe-tips , of the little girl which had grown from his side ? 
He forgot the order . 
He did not count time . 
Lady Da smiled at him often , but there was no love in this place . 
She had lost the extra torsos . 
In between teratologies , she was a pretty and shapely woman ; ; but the nicest thing about their relationship was her whisper to him , repeated some thousands of time , repeated with smiles and hope , `` People never live forever '' . 
She found this immensely comforting , even though Mercer did not make much sense out of it . 
Thus events occurred , and victims changed in appearance , and new ones arrived . 
Sometimes B'dikkat took the new ones , resting in the everlasting sleep of their burned-out brains , in a ground-truck to be added to other herds . 
The bodies in the truck threshed and bawled without human speech when the dromozoa struck them . 
Finally , Mercer did manage to follow B'dikkat to the door of the cabin . 
He had to fight the bliss of super-condamine to do it . 
Only the memory of previous hurt , bewilderment and perplexity made him sure that if he did not ask B'dikkat when he , Mercer , was happy , the answer would no longer be available when he needed it . 
Fighting pleasure itself , he begged B'dikkat to check the records and to tell him how long he had been there . 
B'dikkat grudgingly agreed , but he did not come out of the doorway . 
He spoke through the public address box built into the cabin , and his gigantic voice roared out over the empty plain , so that the pink herd of talking people stirred gently in their happiness and wondered what their friend B'dikkat might be wanting to tell them . 
When he said it , they thought it exceedingly profound , though none of them understood it , since it was simply the amount of time that Mercer had been on Shayol : `` Standard years -- eighty-four years , seven months , three days , two hours , eleven and one half minutes . 
Good luck , fellow '' . 
Mercer turned away . 
The secret little corner of his mind , which stayed sane through happiness and pain , made him wonder about B'dikkat . 
What persuaded the cow-man to remain on Shayol ? 
What kept him happy without super-condamine ? 
Was B'dikkat a crazy slave to his own duty or was he a man who had hopes of going back to his own planet some day , surrounded by a family of little cow-people resembling himself ? 
Mercer , despite his happiness , wept a little at the strange fate of B'dikkat . 
His own fate he accepted . 
He remembered the last time he had eaten -- actual eggs from an actual pan . 
The dromozoa kept him alive , but he did not know how they did it . 
He staggered back to the group . 
The Lady Da , naked in the dusty plain , waved a hospitable hand and showed that there was a place for him to sit beside her . 
There were unclaimed square miles of seating space around them , but he appreciated the kindliness of her gesture none the less . 
4 , The years , if they were years , went by . 
The land of Shayol did not change . 
Sometimes the bubbling sound of geysers came faintly across the plain to the herd of men ; ; those who could talk declared it to be the breathing of Captain Alvarez . 
There was night and day , but no setting of crops , no change of season , no generations of men . 
Time stood still for these people , and their load of pleasure was so commingled with the shocks and pains of the dromozoa that the words of the Lady Da took on very remote meaning . 
`` People never live forever '' . 
Her statement was a hope , not a truth in which they could believe . 
They did not have the wit to follow the stars in their courses , to exchange names with each other , to harvest the experience of each for the wisdom of all . 
There was no dream of escape for these people . 
Though they saw the old-style chemical rockets lift up from the field beyond B'dikkat's cabin , they did not make plans to hide among the frozen crop of transmuted flesh . 
Far long ago , some other prisoner than one of these had tried to write a letter . 
His handwriting was on a rock . 
Mercer read it , and so had a few of the others , but they could not tell which man had done it . 
Nor did they care . 
The letter , scraped on stone , had been a message home . 
They could still read the opening : `` Once , I was like you , stepping out of my window at the end of day , and letting the winds blow me gently toward the place I lived in . 
Once , like you , I had one head , two hands , ten fingers on my hands . 
The front part of my head was called a face , and I could talk with it . 
Now I can only write , and that only when I get out of pain . 
Dan Morgan told himself he would forget Ann Turner . 
He was well rid of her . 
He certainly didn't want a wife who was fickle as Ann . 
If he had married her , he'd have been asking for trouble . 
But all of this was rationalization . 
Sometimes he woke up in the middle of the night thinking of Ann , and then could not get back to sleep . 
His plans and dreams had revolved around her so much and for so long that now he felt as if he had nothing . 
The easiest thing would be to sell out to Al Budd and leave the country , but there was a stubborn streak in him that wouldn't allow it . 
The best antidote for the bitterness and disappointment that poisoned him was hard work . 
He found that if he was tired enough at night , he went to sleep simply because he was too exhausted to stay awake . 
Each day he found himself thinking less often of Ann ; ; each day the hurt was a little duller , a little less poignant . 
He had plenty of work to do . 
Because the summer was unusually dry and hot , the spring produced a smaller stream than in ordinary years . 
The grass in the meadows came fast , now that the warm weather was here . 
He could not afford to lose a drop of the precious water , so he spent most of his waking hours along the ditches in his meadows . 
He had no idea how much time Budd would give him . 
In any case , he had no intention of being caught asleep , so he carried his revolver in its holster on his hip and he took his Winchester with him and leaned it against the fence . 
He stopped every few minutes and leaned on his shovel as he studied the horizon , but nothing happened , each day dragging out with monotonous calm . 
When , in late afternoon on the last day in June , he saw two people top the ridge to the south and walk toward the house , he quit work immediately and strode to his rifle . 
It could be some kind of trick Budd had thought up . 
No one walked in this country , least of all Ed Dow or Dutch Renfro or any of the rest of the Bar B crew . 
Morgan watched the two figures for a time , puzzled . 
When they were closer and he saw that one was a woman , he was more puzzled than ever . 
He cleaned his shovel , left it against the fence , picked up his Winchester , and started downstream . 
His visitors had crawled through the south fence and were crossing the meadow , angling toward the house . 
Now he saw that both the man and woman were moving slowly and irregularly , staggering , as if they found it a struggle to remain on their feet . 
Reaching the house ahead of them , he waited with his Winchester in his hands . 
They crawled through the north fence and came on toward him , and now he saw that both were young , not more than nineteen or twenty . 
They were dirty , their clothes were torn , and the girl was so exhausted that she fell when she was still twenty feet from the front door . 
She lay there , making no effort to get back on her feet . 
The boy came on to the porch and sat down , his gaze on Morgan as if half expecting him to shoot and not really caring . 
Morgan hesitated , thinking that if this was a trick , it was a good one . 
He didn't think it was possible for this couple to be pretending . 
The boy licked his dry lips . 
He asked , `` Could we have a drink '' ? 
Morgan jerked his head toward the front door . 
`` In the kitchen '' , he said . 
Leaning his Winchester against the front of the house , he walked to the girl . 
`` Get up . 
There's water in the house '' . 
She didn't move or say anything . 
Her eyes were glazed as if she didn't hear or even see him . 
She had reached a point at which she didn't even care how she looked . 
Her face was very thin , and burned by the sun until much of the skin was dead and peeling , the new skin under it red and angry . 
Her blond hair was frowzy , her dress torn in several places , and her shoes were so completely worn out that they were practically no protection . 
It must have hurt her even to walk , for the sole was completely off her left foot and Morgan saw that it was bruised and bleeding . 
He picked her up , sliding one hand under her shoulders , the other under her knees , and carried her into the house . 
She was amazingly light , and so relaxed in his arms that he wasn't even sure she was conscious . 
Any lingering suspicion that this was a trick Al Budd had thought up was dispelled . 
No girl would go this far to fool a man so she could kill him . 
Besides , she had a sweet face that attracted him . 
He put her down on the couch , and going into the kitchen , saw that the boy had dropped into a chair beside the table . 
They looked a good deal alike , Morgan thought . 
Both had blonde hair and blue eyes , and there was even a faint similarity of features . 
Morgan filled the dipper from the water bucket on the shelf , went back into the front room , lifted the girl's head , and held the edge of the dipper to her mouth . 
She drank greedily , and murmured , `` Thank you '' , as he lowered her head . 
He stood looking down at her for a moment , wondering what could have reduced her to this condition . 
He had seen a few nester wagons go through the country , the families almost starving to death , but he had never seen any of them on foot and as bad off as these two . 
The girl dropped off to sleep . 
Morgan returned to the kitchen , built a fire , and carried in several buckets of water from the spring which he poured into the copper boiler that he had placed on the stove . 
He brought his Winchester in from the front of the house , then faced the boy . 
`` Who are you and what happened to you '' ? 
He asked . 
`` I'm Billy Jones '' , the boy answered . 
`` That's my wife Sharon . 
We ran out of money and we haven't eaten for two days '' . 
`` What are you doing here '' ? 
`` Are we in Wyoming '' ? 
Morgan nodded . 
`` About five miles north of the line '' . 
Jones sighed as if relieved . 
`` We've been looking for work , but all the ranchers have turned us down '' . 
`` You mean you dragged your wife all over hell's half-acre looking for work '' ? 
Morgan demanded . 
`` The town of Buckhorn's only about six miles from here . 
Why didn't you go there '' ? 
`` We didn't want town work '' , Jones said . 
`` This is a mighty empty country '' , Morgan said . 
`` There's only one more ranch three miles north of here . 
You'd have starved to death if you'd missed both places '' . 
`` Then we're lucky we got here . 
Could you give us a job , Mr. '' `` Morgan . 
Dan Morgan '' . 
He was silent a moment , thinking he could use a man this time of year , and if the girl could cook , it would give him more time in the meadows , but he knew nothing about the couple . 
They might kill him in his sleep , thinking there was money in the house . 
He dismissed the possibility at once . 
The girl's thin face haunted him . 
It wasn't the face of a killer . 
He wasn't so sure about the boy . 
He hadn't shaved for several weeks , his sparse beard giving his face a pathetic , woebegone expression . 
There was more to this than Jones had told him . 
They were running from something . 
He'd be an idiot to let them stay he thought , but he couldn't send them on , either . 
`` I could use some help '' , Morgan said finally , `` but I can't afford to pay you anything . 
I guess you'd better go on in the morning '' . 
`` We'll work for our keep '' , the boy said eagerly . 
`` I've been mucking in a mine in the San Juan , but I used to work on a ranch . 
Sharon , she's cooked in a restaurant . 
We'll work hard , Mr. Morgan '' . 
`` I'll see '' , Morgan said . 
`` Right now you need a meal and a bath . 
Your wife's in terrible shape '' . 
`` I know '' , Jones said dejectedly . 
Morgan filled the fire box with wood again , then started supper and set the table . 
When the meal was ready , he told Jones to wash up , and going into the front room , woke the girl . 
He said , `` I've got some supper ready '' . 
She rubbed her eyes and stretched , then sat up , her hands going to her hair . 
`` I'm a mess '' , she said , and suddenly she was alarmed . 
`` Who are you ? 
How did we get here '' ? 
`` I'm Dan Morgan . 
This is the Rafter Aj . 
You fell down in front of the house , and I carried you in . 
I gave you a drink and then you went to sleep '' . 
`` Oh '' . 
She stared at him , her eyes wide as she thought about what he had said ; ; then she murmured : `` You're very kind , Mr. Morgan . 
Do you take in all the strays who come by '' ? 
`` I don't have many strays coming to my front door '' , he said . 
`` Think you can walk to the table '' ? 
`` Of course '' . 
She got to her feet , staggered , and almost fell . 
He caught her by an arm and helped her into the kitchen . 
She sat down at the table , shaking her head . 
`` I'm sorry , Mr. Morgan . 
I'm usually a very strong woman , but I'm awfully tired '' . 
`` And hungry '' , he said . 
`` Start in . 
It's not much of a meal , but it's what I eat '' . 
`` Not much of a meal '' ? 
The girl cried . 
`` Mr. Morgan , it's the best-looking food I ever saw '' . 
He told himself he had never seen two people eat so much . 
When they were finally satisfied , Jones said , `` I think he's going to give us work '' . 
The grateful way she looked at Morgan made him ashamed of himself . 
When he saw the expression in her eyes , he knew he couldn't send them on . 
She said , `` I guess the Lord looks out for fools , drunkards , and innocents '' . 
Morgan laughed . 
`` Which are you '' ? 
`` We're not drunkards '' , she said . 
`` That's all I'm sure of '' . 
She helped him with the dishes , then he brought more water in from the spring before it got dark . 
He carried the tub from the back of the house where it hung from a nail in the wall . 
He said : `` You'll feel a lot better after you have a bath . 
Your feet are in bad shape , Mrs. Jones . 
You'll have to go to town to see the doc '' . 
`` No , she'll be all right '' , Jones said quickly . 
`` I mean , we don't have any way to get there and we can't expect you to quit work just to take us to town '' . 
`` We'll see '' , Morgan said . 
`` Could you find me a needle and thread '' ? 
The girl asked . 
`` My dress needs some work on it '' . 
He nodded and , going into the bedroom , brought a needle , thread , and scissors . 
He said : `` I'm going to bed '' . 
He nodded at the door in front of him . 
`` That's my spare bedroom . 
The bed isn't made , but you'll find plenty of blankets there '' . 
`` You're awfully kind '' , the girl said . 
`` We'll pay you back if you'll let us . 
Some way '' . 
`` It's all right '' , he said . 
`` I get up early . 
You'd better sleep '' . 
Jones followed him into the front room , closing the door behind him . 
He said : `` If it's all right with you , Mr. Morgan , I'll sleep out here on the couch . 
We haven't slept together since we started . 
I just can't take any chances on getting her pregnant , and if we were sleeping together '' He stopped , embarrassed , and Morgan said , `` I understand that , but I don't savvy why you'd go off and leave your jobs in the first place '' . 
`` We got fired '' , Jones said . 
`` We had to do something '' . 
They were a pair of lost , whipped kids , Morgan thought as he went to bed . 
Gavin paused wearily . 
`` You can't stay here with me . 
It's late and you said they'd be here by dawn '' . 
`` You can't make me go '' . 
Gavin sank down again into his chair and began to rock . 
He was thinking of Rittenhouse and how he had left him there , to rock to death on the porch of the Splendide . 
It was the only thing in his life for which he felt guilt . 
Beneath his black shirt his frail shoulders shook and croaks of pain broke from his throat , the stored pain shattering free in slow gasps , terrible to see . 
Clayton tried to call back the face of the man he had known . 
Against that other man he could rally his anger ; ; against this bent man in the chair he was powerless . 
Gavin's lips moved so that Clayton had to stoop to catch the words . 
`` Do you remember Big Charlie '' ? 
He whispered . 
`` He stuck with me all these years . 
Just a half-breed 'pache , never said much , never meant anythin to me , but he stuck with me . 
He got into a fight with Tom English , your brother's son . 
It was a fair fight , the boy provoked it -- Big Charlie told me so . 
I believed him . 
They killed Big Charlie , dumped his body in my rose garden two nights ago . 
My men , they all left me . 
Just cleared out . 
I didn't understand why , Clay . 
They just all cleared out . 
I treated them fair '' He wiped his lips with a sleeve , then stared at Clayton in a childish kind of wonder . 
`` Do you mean '' -- he asked almost shyly -- `` you want me to go with you , wherever you're goin '' ? 
`` Yes '' . 
`` You don't hate me any more '' ? 
Clayton choked , shook his head , murmuring , `` No '' . 
`` Come here '' . 
The old man beckoned with one finger and Clayton went forward to him . 
Gavin slipped his arms around his chest and hugged him fiercely . 
`` All my life '' , he said , `` I tried . 
I tried . 
I saw you driftin away -- but I tried . 
And you wanted no part of me when I had so much to give . 
Now there's nothin left of me . 
Laurel is gone , my men are gone , Ed is dead -- and you come to me , to help me . 
Oh ! 
God in Heaven , I can't refuse you now . 
That would mock me too much ! 
Can't let you go way from me again '' He closed his eyes , ashamed of his tears . 
`` I'll go , Clay '' . 
Clayton freed himself from the embrace and stepped back . 
The eyes followed him fearfully . 
`` The horses . 
There isn't much time . 
I'll saddle the horses and bring them round . 
You get ready '' He burst from the hot confinement of the room into the cold night air . 
Gavin's stallion was in the barn and he tightened the cinches over the saddle blanket , working by touch in the darkness , comforting the animal with easy words . 
When he had finished he led him and the mare to the porch . 
The stallion had smelled the mare coming into heat and began to paw the turf , shaking his head . 
Clayton looped the reins in a knot over the veranda post and patted the warm flesh of his neck . 
The mare had backed away . 
`` You take it easy , boy '' , Clayton whispered . 
`` She doesn't want you now . 
You take it easy , your time will come '' . 
Gavin stood on the porch , a thin figure . 
He had taken a carbine down from the wall and it trailed from his hand , the stock bumping on the wood floor . 
Clayton called to him and he came slowly down the steps . 
`` Clay '' , he said , `` where are we goin '' ? 
`` To a ranch in the valley . 
There's someone there I have to see . 
We may take her with us -- to California . 
I don't know yet , it's crazy ; ; I have to think about it . 
But California is where we're goin '' . 
`` California '' . 
Gavin began to nod . 
`` That's a new land . 
A man could make a mark there . 
Two men , together like us , we could do somethin fine out there , maybe find a place where no one's ever been . 
Start out fresh , the two of us , like nothin had ever happened '' . 
`` Yes , like a father and son '' . 
`` I made you what you are '' , Gavin whispered . 
`` I made you so you could stand up . 
I made you a man '' . 
`` Yes , Gavin , you did '' . 
He approached the horse and laid a hand on the stallion's quivering neck . 
`` Help me up , Clay . 
Help me up , I feel kind of stiff '' . 
Clayton lifted him gently into the saddle , like a child . 
`` I hate to leave my garden '' , Gavin said . 
`` They'll trample it down . 
I loved my garden '' . 
`` It will grow again -- in California '' . 
`` I loved this valley '' , he whispered huskily . 
`` Lived alone here for three years , before any man came . 
Lived alone by the river . 
It was nice then , so peaceful and quiet . 
There was no one but me . 
I don't want to leave it '' . 
Clayton swung into the saddle and whacked the stallion's rump . 
The two horses broke from the yard , from the circle of light cast by the lamp still burning in the house , into the darkness . 
Thirty-five they rode at a measured pace through the valley . 
Dawn would come soon and the night was at its coldest . 
The moon had sunk below the black crest of the mountains and the land , seen through eyes that had grown accustomed to the absence of light , looked primeval , as if no man had ever trespassed before . 
It looked as Gavin had first seen it years ago , on those nights when he slept alone by his campfire and waked suddenly to the hoot of an owl or the rustle of a blade of grass in the moon's wind -- a savage land , untenanted and brooding , too strong to be broken by the will of men . 
Gavin sighed bitterly . 
In that inert landscape the caravan of his desires passed before his mind . 
He saw them ambushed , strewn in the postures of the broken and the dying . 
In vain his mind groped to reassemble the bones of the relationships he had sought so desperately , but they would not come to life . 
The silence oppressed him , made him bend low over the horse's neck as if to hide from a wind that had begun to blow far away and was twisting slowly through the darkness in its slow search . 
They passed ranches that were framed dark gray against the black hills . 
Then at last the darkness began to dissolve . 
A bold line of violet broke loose from the high ridge of the mountains , followed by feathers of red that swept the last stars from the sky . 
The wan light spread over the ground and the valley revealed in the first glimmer the contours of trees and fences and palely shadowed gullies . 
They had been seen as soon as they left the ranch , picked out of the darkness by the weary though watchful eyes of two men posted a few hundred yards away in the windless shelter of the trees . 
The two men whipped their horses into town and flung themselves up the steps of the saloon , crying their intelligence . 
The men in Pettigrew's were tired from a night's drinking , their faces red and baggy . 
But the liquor had flushed their courage . 
They greeted the news angrily , as though they had been cheated of purpose . 
Lester heard their muttering , saw their eyes reveal their desire . 
He worked his tongue round and round in the hollow of his cheek and his voice came out of his throat , dry and cracked . 
`` He's leavin . 
That's what you wanted , isn't it ? 
Clayton is with him , takin him out of the valley . 
You can't '' -- `` Keep out of this '' , Purvis snarled . 
`` He's not your brother , he's Gavin's son . 
You see , he lied to us when he said he was leavin alone '' . 
Joe Purvis was thinking back many years . 
First he thought of the time he had ridden to Gavin and told him how his cattle were being rustled at the far end of the valley . 
He remembered Gavin's smirk , his own cringing feeling , his impotence . 
Then he thought of a time when Clayton's horse had fallen lame in the Gap . 
His wife had said to him : `` Nellie is in love with Clayton Roy . 
He wouldn't even dance with her at Gavin's party . 
He treats her like she was dirt . 
And you stand by like a fool and let him do it '' He remembered Clayton's mocking smile in the saloon when he had asked him what he would do if they brought their cattle to water . 
It was the night Clayton had tricked them in the poker game . 
`` You're Gavin's son '' , Joe Purvis had said . 
He turned to Lester . 
`` You brought him back to this valley thinkin he would help you find your boy . 
He meant to help Gavin all the time . 
He made a fool of you , Lester '' . 
He swung round to the other men -- `` We can catch him easy ! 
There are plenty of fresh horses halfway at my place . 
If we let them go , they won't stay away , they'll find men to ride with them and they'll be back . 
There's only one way they can get out now and that's through the Gap -- if we ride hard we can take them '' . 
Lester's hand fluttered to Cabot's shoulder . 
The boy jerked away . 
`` He killed Tom -- do you understand that '' ? 
Cabot turned back to the men and he was drunk with the thing they would do , wild to break from the cloying warmth of the saloon into the cold of the ebbing night . 
He fled through the door and down the steps , running , and the men grunted and followed , pushing Lester to one side where he backed against the wall with the sleeve of his jacket raised before his eyes to shut out the light . 
Purvis and Silas Pettigrew were the last to leave . 
They mounted up and rode slowly behind the others at a safe distance . 
Thirty-six in the cold dawn the mist swirled low to the ground , then rose with a gust of sudden wind to leave the valley clear . 
The clouds parted and hard gashes of sunlight swooped down to stain the earth with streaks of white and gold light so that the shadows of the running horses flowed like dark streams over the dazzling snow . 
When they turned in the saddle they could see the men behind them , strung out on the prairie in a flat black line . 
The wind of their running was cold and wild , the horses were lathered and their manes streamed like stiff black pennants in the wind . 
The mare began to tire and Clayton felt the spray of snow from the hoofs of Gavin's stallion . 
He looked over his shoulder at the thin dotting of pursuers . 
They neither gained nor fell back . 
He rode low on the mare's neck . 
Ahead of him Gavin turned slightly off the trail and pointed for the Gap , no more than a mile away . 
Gavin's face was bloodless with excitement . 
He did not look back ; ; he could feel more than hear the staccato beat of hoofs that fanned out across the prairie to the north . 
He knew who was riding after him -- the men he had known all his life , the men who had worked for him , sworn their loyalty to him . 
Now they were riding to kill him . 
And he was fleeing , running -- fleeing his death and his life at the same time . 
The land over which he sped was the land he had created and lived in : his valley . 
With every leaping stride of the horse beneath him he crossed one more patch of earth that had been his , that he would never see again . 
The Gap looming before him -- the place where had confronted Jack English on that day so many years ago -- was his exit from all that had meaning to him . 
California is too far , he thought . 
He would never reach California . 
He was too old -- when he passed up and through the corridor of pines that lined the trail he could see ahead , he was passing from life . 
The sentry was not dead . 
He was , in fact , showing signs of reviving . 
He had been carrying an Enfield rifle and a holstered navy cap-and-ball pistol . 
A bayonet hung in a belt scabbard . 
He was partially uniformed in a cavalry tunic and hat . 
Mike stripped these from him and donned them . 
He and Dean tied and gagged the man , using his belt and shirt for the purpose . 
They dragged him inside the building . 
Fiske joined them , unsteady on his feet . 
Julia , seeing the bandage , rushed to him . 
`` You are hurt '' ! 
She breathed . 
`` I never felt better in my life '' , Fiske blustered . 
He turned to Susan and kissed her on the cheek . 
`` Thank you , My dear '' , he said . 
`` You are very brave '' . 
Mike silenced them . 
`` We'll talk later . 
First , we've got to get out of here '' . 
`` We'll grab horses '' , Dean said . 
`` The main bunch is outside , but there are some over there inside the wall '' . 
Mike debated it , trying to decide whether Fiske was strong enough to ride . 
But it at least offered him a chance for living . 
He had none here . 
And , for the sake of Julia and Susan , it had to be tried . 
The guerrilla bivouac remained silent . 
Light showed in the orderly room across the parade ground . 
Someone evidently was on duty there . 
No doubt there would be men guarding the horses . 
About a dozen animals were held inside the stockade , as best Mike could make out in the moonlight . 
Evidently this was a precaution so that mounts would be available in an emergency . 
He handed the guard's rifle to Fiske . 
`` Dean and myself will try to cut out horses to ride '' , he said . 
`` We'll stampede the rest . 
You stay with the ladies . 
All of you be ready to ride hell for leather '' . 
He added , `` If this doesn't work out , the three of you barricade yourself in the house and talk terms with them '' . 
He handed the bayonet to Dean and kept the pistol . 
Susan halted Dean and kissed him . 
She clung to him , talking to him , and dabbing at her eyes . 
Mike turned away . 
He was thinking that the way she had responded to his own kiss hadn't meant what he had believed it had . 
He felt unutterably weary . 
Dean turned from Susan and took Julia Fortune in his arms . 
He kissed her also , and with deep tenderness . 
She too began to weep . 
He released her and joined Mike . 
`` All right '' , he said . 
Mike only said , `` Later '' . 
`` Be careful , McLish '' ! 
Susan said fiercely . 
`` The way you were careful '' ? 
He snorted . 
`` Running around in the moonlight almost naked and slugging a man with a rock '' ? 
He kept going . 
He wanted no more sentimental scenes with her . 
He might say or do something foolish . 
Something all of them would regret . 
He might tell her how sorry a spectacle she was making of herself , pretending to be blind to the way Julia Fortune had taken Dean's affections from her . 
And using him , Mike McLish , as a sop to her pride . 
He handed the bayonet to Dean and kept the pistol . 
`` Stay well back of me '' , he said . 
`` I'm going to walk up to the horses , bold as brass , pretending I'm one of the guerrillas . 
There's bound to be someone on guard , but the hat might fool them long enough for me to get close '' . 
Holding the pistol concealed , he walked to the rear wall of the stockade . 
It was pierced by a wagon gate built of two wings . 
One wing stood open . 
Mike passed through it and moved toward the dark mass of horses . 
They were tethered , army style , on stable lines . 
A voice spoke near-at-hand . 
`` Who's that '' ? 
Just me '' , Mike said . 
`` Is that you , Bill '' ? 
He located his man . 
The guard stood in the shadow of the stockade wall just out of reach of the moonlight . 
Mike kept walking and got within arm's reach before the man became suspicious and straightened from his lax slouch . 
Mike struck with the muzzle of the pistol . 
But the luck that had been running their way left him . 
The guard instinctively parried the blow with his rifle . 
He tried to veer the rifle around to fire into Mike's body . 
Mike , off balance , managed to bat the muzzle away a moment before it exploded . 
The bullet went wide . 
Mike swung the pistol in a savage backlash . 
This time it connected solidly on the man's temple , felling him . 
The explosion of the rifle had crashed against the walls of the stockade and the deep echoes were still rolling in the hills . 
The startled horses began rearing on their tethers . 
Dean came rushing up . 
`` Are you hit '' ? 
He demanded . 
`` No , but the fat's in the fire '' ! 
Mike said . 
`` There's no chance now of all of us getting away . 
You'll have to try it alone '' . 
The sentry's saddled horse stood picketed nearby , having been kept handy in case of need . 
Mike took the bayonet from Dean's hand and slashed the picket line . 
`` Up you go '' ! 
He said . 
`` Ride '' ! 
Dean resisted Mike's attempt to push him toward the horse . 
`` Why not you '' ? 
He protested . 
`` Dammit '' ! 
Mike said frantically . 
`` You're lighter than me . 
It's our only chance now . 
Try to find these Feds . 
The rest of us can fort up in the house and hang on until you get back . 
You're the one that's taking the big chance '' . 
Dean still hesitated , but Mike lifted him almost bodily into the saddle and thrust the reins in his hand . 
`` No telling how good this horse is '' , Mike panted . 
`` Favor him and save something in case you hit trouble . 
Watch out for Apaches when it comes daylight . 
Take the pistol . 
You might need it . 
We'll still have the rifle , and I might be able to round up some more . 
I'll stampede the rest of these horses so they can't chase you '' . 
Dean leaned from the saddle and gave him a mighty whack on the back . 
`` McLish '' , he said as he kicked the horse into motion , `` I'd be a mighty sad man if we never met again '' . 
Then he was on his way at a gallop . 
Mike ran down the line , slashing picket ropes with the bayonet . 
He lifted a screeching war whoop . 
That touched off a total stampede . 
He darted inside the stockade and freed the horses there . 
These poured through the gate and joined the flight . 
The animals thundered away into the moonlight , heading for the ridges . 
The guerrillas were swarming from their bivouac at the west end of the enclosure . 
`` Apaches '' ! 
Mike yelled . 
`` They're stealin' the stock '' ! 
He scuttled in shadow along the east wall of the stockade and then followed the south wall until he was at the rear of the two frame buildings . 
He crouched there . 
His shout had been taken up and repeated . 
The guerrillas were running across the parade ground and through the rear gate in the wake of the departing horses . 
All were carrying guns they had seized up , but they were half-clad or hardly clad at all . 
Durkin and Calhoun came running from the post . 
They had pistols in their hands . 
They bawled questions that were not answered in the uproar . 
They followed the others toward the east gate . 
Beyond the stockade rifles began to explode as some of the guerrillas fired at shadows that they imagined were Apaches . 
Mike made a dash to the rear of the frame buildings . 
He crawled beneath the two supply wagons which stood between the buildings and peered around a corner . 
The area was deserted . 
A man was standing in the open door of the lighted orderly room a few yards to Mike's left , but he , too , suddenly made up his mind and went racing to join the confused activity at the east end of the stockade . 
Mike crawled to the door and peered in . 
The orderly room seemed to be deserted . 
A lantern hung from a peg , giving light . 
Ducking inside , he found that three rifles were stacked in a corner . 
A brace of pistols , holstered on belts , hung from a peg , along with ammunition pouches . 
An ammunition case stood open , containing canisters which contained powder cartridges . 
Mike seized a blanket from a pallet in a corner , spread it on the floor and used it to form a bag in which he placed his booty . 
Shouldering the load he peered from the door . 
His looting of the orderly room had taken only a minute or two and the vicinity was still clear of guerrillas . 
He looked at the looming hoods of the supply wagons , struck by a new inspiration . 
He set his bundle down . 
Snatching the lantern from its peg , he shattered its globe with a blow against a post . 
He picked up the powder canister and ran out . 
Bursting paper cartridges , he scattered powder beneath the nearest wagon and dumped the contents of the canister upon it . 
He shouldered the blanket again , backed off , and tossed the lantern with its open wick beneath the wagon . 
He turned and raced across the parade ground toward the rock house . 
Powder flame gushed beneath the wagon . 
The stockade was brilliantly lighted and the guerrillas sighted him . 
They realized the truth . 
Bullets began to snap past him . 
One struck the muzzle of one of the rifles that projected from the shoulder pack . 
Its force spun him around , but he recovered and got into stride again . 
A bullet tore the earth from beneath his foot when he was a stride or two from safety . 
Another struck him heavily in the thigh and he went down . 
Guerrillas were racing toward him . 
Susan and Julia came from the door and dragged him with them . 
The three of them floundered through the door into the interior and fell in a heap . 
Susan bounced to her feet and slammed the door . 
She crouched aside as bullets beat at the portal , chewing into the planks . 
Some tore entirely through the whipsawed post oak . 
The iron hinges held , but the planks were in danger of being torn from the crossbars . 
Mike rolled to Susan , grasped her around the knees , dragging her off her feet . 
He hovered over her to shield her , for spent bullets were thudding against the rear walls . 
He peered from a loophole . 
Guerrillas were only a dozen yards away , charging the house . 
Mike snatched a pistol from the heap of scattered booty and fired . 
He dropped a man with the first bullet . 
At the same moment Wheeler Fiske fired the rifle Mike had given him and another guerrilla was hit . 
That halted the rush . 
The guerrillas scattered for cover . 
The wagons were burning fiercely . 
The mudwagon had caught fire also . 
The blaze was spreading to the frame buildings . 
The guerrillas realized they faced a new problem . 
`` Gawdamighty '' ! 
One screeched . 
`` There goes our grub an' ammunition '' ! 
`` Get a bucket line going '' ! 
Calhoun shouted . 
`` Hurry ! 
Hurry '' ! 
The guerrillas began a frantic search for pails in which to bring water from the spring . 
But what few containers they found were inadequate . 
Many of them , in increasing panic , came running with water in their hats in a ludicrous effort . 
Both buildings were in flames . 
The heat drove the guerrillas back . 
The roof of the command post began to buckle . 
`` Drag the wagons to the spring '' ! 
Lew Durkin yelled . 
`` Run 'em right into the spring ! 
Hustle '' ! 
One of the wagons erupted a massive pillar of flame . 
A sizable supply of powder had been touched off . 
The wagons and the coach were beyond saving and so were the buildings . 
The glow of the fire reached through the openings in the windows , giving light enough to examine Mike's wound . 
The bullet had torn through the flesh just above the knee , inflicting an ugly gash that was forming a pool of blood on the floor . 
But it had missed the bone and had passed on through . 
Susan and Julia ripped strips from their clothing and bound the injury . 
Mike tested the leg and found that he was able to hobble around on it . 
`` So it wasn't the earthquake that made him return to his village '' ! 
`` No . 
Now dammit , I don't want to go into any more explanations . 
Here comes Jason . 
Keep this to yourself '' . 
Reverend Jason , looking worried , hurried toward us . 
`` Anything wrong , cap'n ? 
The men seem to think so '' . 
`` Dirion found a large war party south of us . 
They'll probably attack at dawn '' , Montero said . 
He brushed past the clergyman and walked into the center of the camp . 
Using his hands as a trumpet he shouted , `` Fort up ! 
Fort up ! 
There's a large war party on their way '' ! 
For a second , engages , cooks , voyageurs appeared struck dumb . 
Then Little Billy began shouting orders to round up the ponies and fill the water buckets and for the cooks to hurry up with the meal . 
They all flew into action . 
`` That was a terrible thing to do '' , I said to Oso . 
The Aricaras treated us like friends . 
And here all the time you knew the Sioux would be using our rifles on them ! 
God , what a world you people live in '' . 
Oso gave me an unruffled look . 
`` Old Knife's got the largest war party ever seen on the river '' , he said calmly . 
`` What would you have done in Montero's moccasins ? 
Let Old Knife come up and kill you and your people , or would you steer him on someone else '' ? 
He shook his head . 
`` Mr. Manuel did that in the war . 
That's why the British never got the tribes to fight for the King . 
Mr. Manuel whispered in the ears of the Sioux that the Cheyennes were comin' to raid 'em for their horses . 
Then he went on to the Cheyennes and told them that the Sioux was goin' to move up . 
He did that with all the Nations . 
Hell , they were fightin' each other so hard they had no time for anyone else . 
The War Department wrote Mr. Manuel a letter and said he was a hero . 
I saw that letter . 
He carried it in a little wallet made of fish skin '' . 
`` But that was war '' , I said . 
`` There's no war on now '' . 
`` You're wrong , Matt . 
In this country there's a war on every time the grass turns green . 
First it was the Nations against themselves , then it was them against the whites . 
And it's goin' to go on like this year after year until the white people take over this land '' . 
I remember being told it would happen so fast people would think it took place overnight . 
`` That's why this company's important . 
Once we get over the mountains others will come along . 
That's why the Trust don't want us to make it . 
That bastard Chambers ! 
-- Old Knife's not the only chief he'll get to do his dirty work ! 
Before we get through he'll have the Blackfeet hankerin' for our hair and our goods . 
Well , talkin' ain't goin' to help -- let's fort up '' ! 
As I dug in behind one of the bales we were using as protection , I grudgingly found myself agreeing with Oso's logic , especially when I imagined what would have happened to Missy if Old Knife's large party of screeching warriors had overrun our company . 
For , unlike the Sioux and the Crows , the Aricaras are not great horsemen , nor are they aggressive like the savage Blackfeet . 
More of an agricultural nation , they have relied on their warriors only for defense and for survival in the endless wars of the plains . 
Still , I was disgusted with myself for agreeing with Montero's methods . 
Surprisingly , he had told the others what he had done . 
In the brief moment I had to talk to them before I took my post on the ring of defenses , I indicated I was sickened by the methods men employed to live and trade on the river . 
`` I think Montero did right '' , Amy said firmly . 
`` Let the savages kill each other . 
What do we care '' ? 
Reverend Jason was understandably bitter . 
`` It was a terrible thing to do . 
Those little children . 
'' But Oso replied calmly , `` Trouble ain't easy to dodge out in this country , rev'rend '' . 
28 . 
Attack Gray Eyes attacked our camp just as the first pink threads stitched together the hills and the sky . 
Our camp was in the center of a wide valley . 
Montero had set up a strong position , using every bale and box we had in addition to barricades of logs and brush . 
He had ordered the ponies brought inside the fortified circle and had assigned Pierre and a band of picked engages the job of trying to keep them steady under fire . 
The pony herd was the one flaw in our defense ; ; the Rees undoubtedly would try to cut down as many of the animals as possible . 
Wildly bucking horses would make the position difficult to defend against charging warriors . 
The cooks had prepared one of the best meals we'd had in a long time , and on Montero's orders had baked enough bread to last the day . 
Buckets were filled , the herd fed and watered . 
The worst part had been the waiting ; ; although we didn't expect the attack before dawn , the long cloudy night , filled with the sounds of the industrious insects , seemed endless . 
Coyotes and hunting wolves sounded like signaling Indian scouts , the whinny of a restless pony made one's skin crawl . 
Oso slept unconcernedly , his rifle cradled in his arms ; ; I didn't catch a wink . 
Every time I closed my eyes , I saw Gray Eyes rushing at me with a knife . 
It was a relief when they finally came . 
They poured through the opening in the valley , then spread out in a long line to come at us , brandishing their lances and filling the morning with their spine-chilling scalp cry . 
`` Oso '' , Montero called `` I'll get Gray Eyes '' . 
`` That'll be a pleasure to see '' , the big black murmured as he stared down the barrel of his rifle . 
`` Hold your fire '' , Montero was shouting . 
`` Wait until my shot . 
I'll shoot the first man who doesn't '' . 
I could see them in my sights . 
They were about a mile off ; ; under me the ground quivered slightly . 
At first they were only feathers and dark indistinguishable faces and bodies , hunched over their horses' heads . 
Gradually they emerged as men . 
Gray Eyes was in the lead . 
His face was split by a vermilion streak , his eyes were pools of white ; ; jagged red and black medicine symbols covered his chest . 
He was naked except for a clout . 
Next to him was a young boy I was sure had sat near me at one of the trading sessions . 
His mouth was open , his neck corded with the strain of his screams . 
I found his chest in my sights . 
It had a red circle . 
The circle came nearer and nearer . 
My God , how long is he going to wait , I thought . 
Montero's rifle cracked . 
At first I thought he had missed . 
Gray Eyes remained erect . 
The feathered lance was still above his head . 
As he started to slump over , another warrior swung him onto his horse . 
I squeezed the trigger . 
At the last second I dropped my sights from the bare chest and bright red circle to the chest of his pony . 
I saw the pony fall like a stone and the young warrior flew over its head , bouncing like a rubber ball . 
He started to run but Oso's shot caught him on the wing . 
He jerked once in the grass and lay still . 
`` If you're goin' to kill 'em -- ! 
Kill 'em '' ! 
Oso growled . 
What else he said was lost in the rattle of gunfire on all sides . 
The Aricaras broke under the devastating fire , wheeled and retreated . 
`` Lead up ! 
Lead up ! 
They'll be back '' ! 
Montero was shouting . 
Far up the valley I could see the Rees circling and reorganizing . 
Out in front of our walls the grass was covered with dead and dying men , war shields , lances , blankets and wounded and dead horses . 
The morning air was filled with the sweetish odor of new-spilled blood , the acrid stench of frightened horses , and the bitterness of burned powder . 
A horse screamed as it twisted from side to side in a frenzy . 
A rifle cracked ; ; the square head fell over . 
One of the warriors suddenly leaped to his feet and began running across the valley to the trees that lined the small creek . 
His legs pumped furiously , his long black hair streamed out behind him . 
There was a ragged volley . 
He was dead before he hit the ground . 
`` For Christ's sake , don't waste your powder on one of 'em '' ! 
Montero shouted furiously . 
`` Wait for the charge ! 
The charge , I tell you '' ! 
The sharp cries at the end of the valley were faint . 
They grew louder as the Indians charged again . 
I could see their faces glistening with sweat and bear grease , their mouths open , shouting their spine-chilling cries . 
`` Gray Eyes is back , , Montero said . 
The war captain had been badly wounded and was fighting to hold his seat . 
I could see the blood running down his chest . 
He was riding between two warriors , who held him erect when he started to slump . 
I forgot to aim . 
In my sights I watched him looming bigger and bigger . 
Montero's shot had caught him high in the chest ; ; there was no doubt he was dying . 
Again we waited for Montero . 
This time he delayed so long that some of the engages shouted frantically , but they held their fire . 
The horses were only several lengths away when he fired . 
The bullet flung Gray Eyes from his horse . 
Our rolling volley swept most of the other riders from their mounts . 
But a few reached our wall . 
I heard the whir of an ax and a Canadian's face burst apart in a bloody spray . 
I saw Little Billy rise and fire almost point blank and an Indian's face became shattered flesh and bone . 
A second leaped from his horse to the top of the bale , firing four arrows in such rapid succession it didn't seem possible they were in flight . 
Men screamed . 
Oso reached up , jerked the buck from the bale and snapped his neck . 
Other Indians were running at the ponies , shrilling and waving blankets . 
Reverend Jason got one , the Canadians the others . 
I saw the clergyman kneel for a moment by the twitching body of the man he had shot , then run back to his position . 
The ponies were almost uncontrollable . 
The pall of dust they raised made it difficult to see when the Aricaras charged again . 
This time more of them hurdled the barrier . 
A small Indian dived at Montero , who caught him with a swift upward stroke of his rifle butt . 
It sounded like a man kicking a melon . 
Above me a dark rider was whipping his pony with a quirt in an attempt to hurdle the bales . 
Although my shot killed his horse , he rolled off the bale on top of me . 
I could smell woodsmoke , grease , and oil . 
His eyes were dark , fluid , fearful , and he gave a sigh as my knife went in . 
Coming over the wall he had seemed like a hideous devil . 
Now under me I could see him for what he really was , a boy dressed up in streaks of paint . 
The Aricaras made one last desperate charge . 
It was pitiful to see the thin ranks of warriors , old and young , wheeling and twisting their ponies frantically from side to side only to be tumbled bleeding from their saddles by the relentless slam , slam of the cruelly efficient Hawkinses . 
Others , badly wounded , gripped hands in manes , knees in bellies , held on as long as possible and then , weak from ghastly wounds , slipped sideways , slowly , almost thoughtfully , to be broken under the slashing hoofs . 
Some gracefully soared from the backs of their wounded , screaming mounts to make one last defiant charge before the lead split their hearts or tore their guts . 
None of them reached our walls again . 
The few survivors grudgingly turned away . 
In the distance we could hear the drums and the wail of the death song . 
She was carrying a quirt , and she started to raise it , then let it fall again and dangle from her wrist . 
`` I saw your fire '' , she said , speaking slowly , making an effort to control her anger . 
`` You could burn down this whole mountainside with a fire that size . 
It wouldn't matter to a fool like you . 
It would to me '' . 
`` All right '' , Wilson said quickly . 
`` The fire's too big . 
And I appreciate the advice '' . 
He was losing patience again . 
An hour before , with the children asleep and nothing but the strange darkness , he would have appreciated company . 
She had helped him change his mind . 
`` I'm not advising you '' , she said . 
`` I'm telling you . 
That fire's too big . 
Let it burn down . 
And make sure it's out when you leave in the morning '' . 
He was taken aback . 
It took him a long time to compose himself . 
`` There's some mistake '' , he said finally . 
`` You're right about the fire . 
It's bigger than it has to be , though I don't see where it's doing any harm . 
But you're wrong about the rest of it . 
I'm not leaving in the morning . 
Why should I ? 
I own the place '' . 
She showed her surprise by tightening the reins and moving the gelding around so that she could get a better look at his face . 
It didn't seem to tell her anything . 
She glanced around the clearing , taking in the wagon and the load of supplies and trappings scattered over the ground , the two kids , the whiteface bull that was chewing its cud just within the far reaches of the firelight . 
She studied it for a long time . 
Then she turned back to Wilson and smiled , and he wasn't quite sure what she meant by it . 
`` You own this place '' ? 
She said , and her tone had softened until it was almost friendly . 
`` You bought it '' ? 
`` From a man in St. Louis '' , Wilson said . 
`` Jake Carwood . 
Maybe you know him '' . 
The girl laughed . 
`` I know him . 
I ought to . 
My father ran him off here six years ago '' . 
Wilson didn't say anything . 
He stood watching the girl , wondering what was coming next . 
She had picked up the quirt and was twirling it around her wrist and smiling at him . 
`` Carwood didn't tell you that '' , she said . 
`` No '' , Wilson said . 
`` But it's understandable . 
It's not the kind of thing that a man would be proud of . 
And it doesn't make any difference . 
He sold me a clear title . 
I have it with me , right here . 
If you want to see '' -- `` Never mind '' , she said sternly . 
`` It wouldn't matter to my father , and not to me . 
I meant what I said about that fire . 
Be sure it's out when you leave . 
That's all . 
I'll let you go back to doing the dishes now '' . 
It was meant to insult him , and didn't quite succeed . 
He took the reins just below the bit and held them firmly , and it was his turn to smile now . 
`` I don't mind washing dishes now and then '' , he said pleasantly . 
`` It doesn't hurt . 
It might hurt you , though . 
Somebody might mistake you for a woman '' . 
He meant to say more , but he never got the chance . 
She was quick . 
She brought the quirt down , slashing it across his cheek , and he tried to step back . 
She swung the quirt again , and this time he caught her wrist and pulled her out of the saddle . 
She came down against him , and he tried to break her fall . 
He grabbed her by the shoulders and went down on one knee , taking her weight so that some of the wind was driven out of him . 
It made him a little sick , and he let go of her . 
He got up slowly , and she was already on her feet , and he stood facing her . 
He wiped the blood from his cheek . 
`` I ought to '' -- he said . 
He was shaking with anger , his breath coming in long , painful gasps . 
`` That quirt -- I ought to use it on you , where it would do the most good . 
If you were a man '' -- `` She isn't , mister '' . 
The voice came from behind him , and Wilson turned . 
The fire had gone down , and the man was only a shadow against the trees . 
But a moment later he brought his horse forward into the light , and Wilson had a good look at him . 
He was tall and dark-skinned , a half-breed , Wilson thought . 
And he was handsome , despite the long thin scar that slanted across his cheek . 
`` She's not a man , mister '' , he said . 
`` I am . 
If you've got any ideas '' . 
He raised the Winchester and pointed it at Wilson's chest . 
`` Put the rifle down , Joseph '' , the girl said . 
She seemed irritated . 
`` I thought I told you to stay home '' . 
The half-breed eased the Winchester down and rested it across his lap . 
The scar looked pure white in the half-darkness ; ; his eyes were black and deep-set , and expressionless . 
`` You shouldn't be riding up here after dark , Judith '' , he said quietly . 
`` I can take care of this . 
It's no job for you '' . 
The girl tapped the quirt impatiently against her knee and glared at him . 
He took it without flinching . 
`` I said go home , Joseph . 
You've got no business up here '' . 
The half-breed didn't answer this time . 
But the scar seemed to pull hard at the corner of his mouth , and his eyes were hurt and angry . 
It made Wilson wonder . 
He watched the half-breed as he turned silently . 
They could hear the pony's feet on the dry leaves for a while , then the sound faded out . 
Wilson brushed the dust from his coat . 
`` Who was that '' ? 
He asked . 
`` Your personal guard ? 
You're pretty hard on him '' . 
`` He works for my father '' , the girl said , and then seemed to change her mind . 
`` He's a friend . 
His name's Joseph Sanchez . 
Is there anything else you want to know '' ? 
`` Not now '' , Wilson said . 
`` I guess I'll find out soon enough . 
You've got blood on your cheek . 
Not yours . 
Mine . 
It must have got there when you fell against me '' . 
She wiped it off with the sleeve of her coat . 
`` I'll bet that's as close as you've been to a man since you were a baby '' , Wilson said . 
He saw her hand start to work down the leather thong toward the handle of the quirt , and he grabbed her wrist . 
`` Oh , no '' , he said , and he was without humor now . 
`` I've had enough of that . 
I've had enough of you . 
I don't know what goes on around here , and I don't care . 
I don't know what makes you think you can get away with this kind of business , and I don't care about that , either . 
You took me by surprise . 
But I'll know how to handle you next time '' . 
She brought up her free hand to hit him , but this time he was quicker . 
He side-stepped her blow and she fell , stumbling against the gelding . 
She finally regained her balance and got up in the saddle . 
Her hat had come off and fallen behind her shoulders , held by the string , and he could see her face more clearly than he had at any time before . 
He had forgotten that she was so pretty . 
But her prettiness was what he had noticed first , and all the other things had come afterward : cruelty , meanness , self-will . 
He had known women like that , one woman in particular . 
And one had been too many . 
He watched the girl until she had gone into the trees , and waited until he couldn't hear the sound of her horse any longer , then went up to where the children were sleeping . 
They weren't sleeping , of course , but they thought they were doing him a favor by pretending . 
He hadn't shown up too well in their eyes , letting himself be browbeaten by a woman . 
They expected greater things from him , regardless of how trying the circumstances , and they were disappointed . 
And determined not to show it . 
They lay a little too stiffly , with their eyes straining to stay closed . 
`` Go to sleep '' , he said . 
`` Both of you . 
There's better things to do than listen to something like that . 
I'll be down at the creek finishing the dishes , if you want me '' . 
He found the pan where he had dropped it and carried it back down to the stream . 
The coyote was calling again , and he hoped that this time there would be no other sounds to interrupt it . 
Not tonight , at any rate . 
He had a feeling that the girl meant trouble . 
If she did , he could stand it better in the light . 
He scrubbed absent-mindedly at the pans and reflected on how things had turned out . 
That afternoon when they had pulled up in front of the broken-down ranch house , his hopes had been high . 
Already some of the pain had gone from Amelia's death . 
Not all of it . 
There would still be plenty of moments of regret and sadness and guilty relief . 
But they were starting a new life . 
And they had almost everything they needed : land , a house , two whiteface bulls , three horses . 
The land wasn't all Wilson had expected of it . 
Six hundred and forty acres , the old man back in St. Louis had said ; ; good grass , good water . 
Well , the grass was there , though in some places the ground was too steep for a cow to get to it . 
The water was there , so much of it that it spread all through the dead orchard . 
And there was a house ; ; livable perhaps , but badly in need of repairs . 
In the last analysis , though , Wilson had little cause to complain . 
The place had been cheap -- just the little he had left after Amelia's burial -- and it would serve its purpose . 
There was only one place where Jake Carwood's description had gone badly awry : the peace and quiet . 
It hadn't started out that way . 
And he had a feeling -- thanks to the girl -- that things would get worse before they got better . 
2 They had the house cleaned up by noon , and Wilson sent the boy out to the meadow to bring in the horses . 
He stood on the porch and watched him struggling with the heavy harness , and finally went over to help him . 
Kathy was already in the wagon . 
They were going to town , and they were both excited . 
Wilson backed the team into the traces , and wished they weren't going to town at all . 
He had an uneasy feeling about it . 
That girl last night , what was her name ? 
Judith Pierce . 
It was the only thing about her that was the least bit hard to remember . 
He finished with the team and filled his pipe and stood looking about him . 
He had spent two hours riding around the ranch that morning , and in broad daylight it was even less inviting than Judith Pierce had made it seem . 
There was brush , and stands of pine that no grass could grow under , and places so steep that cattle wouldn't stop to graze . 
But there was water . 
There was an artificial lake just out of sight in the first stand of trees , fed by a half dozen springs that popped out of the ground above the hillside orchard . 
Yes , there was plenty of water , too much , and that was probably the trouble . 
There were tracks of cattle all over his six hundred and forty acres . 
The first part of the road was steep , but it leveled off after the second bend and curled gradually into the valley . 
It was hotter once they reached the flat , and drier , but the grass was better . 
A warm breeze played across it , moving it like waves . 
A red-tailed hawk flew in behind them and stayed there , watching for any snakes or rabbits that they might stir up from the side of the road . 
It took them an hour before they came to the first houses of Kelseyville . 
The town was about what Wilson expected : one main street with its rows of false-fronted buildings , a water tower , a few warehouses , a single hotel ; ; all dusty and sunbaked . 
The place was quiet . 
Such was my state of mind that I did not question the possibility of this ; ; under the circumstances I was only too willing to confess all . 
I was nearly thirty at the time . 
I went to the hall in the afternoons only , on these preliminary matters . 
It was dark and , I sensed , very large ; ; only the counter at one end was lighted by a long fluorescent tube suspended directly above it . 
Sometimes I was aware of people moving about in the darkness . 
I would turn away from my writing in the hope of getting a good look at them but I never quite succeeded . 
A glimpse of three of four vague figures , at the most . 
Drifting here and there . 
Squatting , as if waiting . 
The pulsing glow of a cigarette . 
Since they could see me but I not them , their presence in the hall disturbed me . 
The clerk paid them no attention . 
This impressed me , until I realized how limited was his sphere of influence . 
His job simply consisted in registering new men . 
When the phone rang he answered it . 
His authority extended to the far edge of the counter , no further . 
None of the men hanging around the hall bothered to speak to him . 
Baldness was attacking his pate . 
He spoke to me in a gruff voice , an affectation which quite belied his personality . 
He wore his white shirt open at the neck , revealing a bit of scrawny pale chest underneath . 
It was obvious that he wished himself different from the sort of person he thought he was . 
But it was not easy for him and he often slipped . 
When one of the men in the hall behind us spat on the floor and scraped his boot over the gob of spittle I noticed how the clerk winced . 
I felt certain he was really a spineless little man . 
His hat ( the cause of his baldness ? 
) hung on a hook on the wall , and underneath it I could see his tie , knotted , ready to be slipped over his head , a black badge of frayed respectability that ought never to have left his neck . 
The morning's tabloids were on the counter , and a stack of dog-eared men's magazines . 
On a shelf in the office behind the counter was a small radio dialed permanently on a station which broadcast only vulgar commercials and cheap popular music . 
Everything about the clerk was trivial . 
Once , pressing him , I learned that his job was only part-time , in the afternoons when nothing went on in the hall . 
Noticing my disappointment he attempted to salvage what scraps and shreds of authority he felt might still be clinging to his person . 
With distaste I saw him assume a pompous air . 
When he saw me coming he turned his radio off . 
He made a show of rearranging my forms on the shelf . 
He would pick up the ringing phone with studied negligence , then bark into it with gruff importance . 
What limited knowledge he possessed he forced upon me . 
In the mornings , I was informed , fluorescent tubes , similar to the one above the counter , illuminated the entire hall . 
They , and the two large fans which I could dimly see as daylight filtered through their vents , down at the far end of the hall , could be turned on by a master switch situated inside the office . 
He pointed out the switch to me and for a moment I foolishly believed that he would let deed follow words . 
I was shown , instead , a batch of white tickets of the sort handed out , he told me , every morning . 
Now , here was something of obvious importance to me , yet when I reached for the tickets he snatched them away from my hand . 
He couldn't afford to have anyone mess around with them , he said . 
Each of those tickets was of great value to its rightful recipient . 
I withdrew my hand . 
Later I would remember what this pompous little man had told me about the worth of a ticket . 
Having nothing else to do except wait for my forms to be processed , I gave myself over to speculations concerning the hall itself . 
When suitably lighted , what would it look like ? 
The presence of the two exhaust fans seemed to indicate that the hall could become crowded for air . 
One afternoon , upon receiving permission and the necessary instructions from the clerk , I had visited the toilet adjoining the hall . 
By counting the number of stalls and urinals I attempted to form a loose estimate of how many men the hall would hold at one time . 
For although I had crossed a corner of the hall on my way to the toilet I still could not tell for sure how far to the rear the darkness extended . 
I could observe the two fans down at the end , but their size in themselves meant nothing to me as long as I had no measure of comparison . 
I had for some time been hoping , in vain , for one of the dim figures to pass between the fan vents and myself . 
I knew that three or four of them were almost always present in the hall , but what they were doing , and exactly where , I could not tell . 
It was , I felt , possible that they were men who , having received no tickets for that day , had remained in the hall , to sleep perhaps , in the corners farthest removed from the counter with its overhead light . 
This light did not penetrate very far back into the hall , and my eyes were hindered rather than aided by the dim daylight entering through the fan vents when I tried to pick out whatever might be lying , or squatting , on the floor below . 
Also the clerk appeared to disapprove of my frequent curious glances back over my shoulder . 
No sooner would I turn my head away from the counter before he would address me , at times quite sharply , in order to bring back my attention . 
And I had hardly finished my business in the toilet on the aforementioned occasion when the lights in that place , like the hall lights controlled from the switch in the office , flicked off and on impatiently . 
This sort of petty vigilance annoyed me . 
I felt certain it was self-appointed . 
It sprang from a type of mentality I'd encountered often enough but certainly had not expected to find here . 
I decided to see no more of the clerk until the processing of my papers was completed . 
I felt strongly attached to the hall , however , and hardly a day passed when I did not go to look at it from a distance . 
I lived in a state of suspense because of it . 
I could not cling to my past nor did I wish to . 
I had signed it off on the forms . 
My future lay solely with the hall , yet what did I know about the hall at this point ? 
Although I had been inside it I had not yet seen it functioning . 
I wished to prepare myself but did not even know what sort of clothes I ought to be wearing . 
I did not despair , however ; ; far from it ! 
I was constantly searching for clues around the neighborhood of the hall . 
Though only a relatively short walk separated it from my own part of town , its character was wholly foreign to me . 
Large warehouses flanked the street on which the hall fronted . 
The river was only a few blocks away but an unbroken line of piers prevented me from seeing it . 
Sometimes I noticed the tops of ships' masts and funnels reaching above the pier roofs . 
The sounds issuing from beyond -- winches whirring , men shouting -- indicated great activity and excited me . 
The hall , on the other hand , appeared lifeless and deserted on these long waterfront afternoons . 
It resembled nothing I'd ever seen before . 
Its front was windowless , but irregularities in the masonry might be an indication that windows , now blinded , had once looked out upon the street . 
I kept circling the block hoping to see , from the street behind it , the rear of the hall . 
But it was not a tall structure and other buildings concealed it . 
For weeks I wandered about this neighborhood of warehouses and garages , truck terminals and taxi repair shops , gasoline pumps and longshoremen's lunch counters , yet never did I cease to feel myself a stranger there . 
I returned to the hall , despite my dislike for the clerk . 
As I had expected , he insisted that my visits to the hall would do nothing to further the process of my application . 
Meanwhile spring had passed well into summer . 
At last , when I put it to him directly , the clerk was forced to admit that the delay in my case was unusual . 
When I asked him what , if anything , I could do about it , he surprised me by referring me to the director of the hall . 
I could consult this personage on any weekday morning , though not before ten o'clock . 
The clerk impressed this upon me : that I should not arrive in the hall before ten o'clock . 
When I went for my interview with the director I saw why . 
Although it was dark as usual I could see that the hall had only recently contained a great many people . 
Cigarette butts littered the floor . 
The big fans were going , drawing from the large room the remnants of stale smoke which drifted about in pale strata underneath the ceiling . 
I had felt the draft they were making while mounting the stairs . 
The staircase itself seemed still to be echoing the heavy footfalls of many men . 
I stopped by the counter . 
No one was behind it , but in the rear wall of the office I noticed , for the first time , a door which had been left partially open . 
Past it I could see part part of a desk , a flag in a corner , a rug on the floor . 
The director's office . 
I rapped my knuckles on the counter . 
The director came to the door . 
I was at once disappointed , although just what I had expected him to look like I could not have explained . 
He was a man in his late forties , with graying hair , of medium height ; ; he looked dapper in a lightweight summer suit , brown silk tie and green-tinted soft collar . 
He wore perforated , white-topped shoes ; ; they somehow made me expect to see him launch into a vaudeville tapdance routine any moment . 
But he came toward me sedately enough , showed me around the counter , offered me a seat inside his office , then walked to a file cabinet and got out my application . 
I had the impression that he had read my forms , perhaps several times . 
He did not look at them now . 
As he lowered himself on the chair behind his desk I wondered what this dapper , slightly ridiculous man could possibly have to do with the workings of the hall . 
He spoke , in a voice as immaculate as his appearance . 
Why had I registered ? 
Begging my pardon , he must express his astonishment over seeing a person of my background applying at the hall . 
He had looked over my forms and was impressed by what he had seen there ; ; indeed , my scholastic qualifications were such that he , a college graduate himself , must envy me them . 
Was I sure , he asked , that I knew what I was applying for ? 
What sort of men I would come into contact with , at the hall ? 
These questions did not surprise me ; ; I felt certain that the director , like the afternoon clerk , seldom moved beyond the counter , that the hall , to them , was a jungle , a dark and unwelcome place . 
Though I doubted that he would understand me , I told the director my motives for applying . 
I had always , I said , hankered after working hard with my hands . 
This desire , I went on , growing voluble as my conviction was aroused , had mounted at such a rate recently that I now found its realization necessary not only to my physical but also to my spiritual wellbeing . 
To this effect I had already severed all connections which bound me to my former existence . 
The flat , hard cap was small , but he thrust it to the back of his head . 
`` Tie him up '' . 
`` Hell with it '' . 
Before they could guess his intention Rankin stepped forward and swung the guard's own gun against the uncovered head , hard . 
The man went over without sound , falling to the bare floor . 
Barton said harshly , `` Why did you do that '' ? 
Rankin sneered at him . 
`` What did you want me to do , kiss him ? 
He dumped me in solitary twice '' . 
Barton caught the lighter man's shoulder and swung him around . 
`` Let's get one thing straight , you and me . 
The only reason we brought you was to get Miller out . 
If you ever try anything without my orders I'll kill you '' . 
Fred Rankin looked at him . 
It seemed to Barton that the green eyes mocked him , the thin-lipped smile held insolence , but he had no time to waste now . 
`` Come on . 
Let's move '' . 
They filed out through the guard-room door , into the paved square . 
There were three other men within this prison whom Barton would have liked to liberate , but they were in other cell blocks . 
There was no chance . 
They moved slowly , toward the main gate , following the wall . 
There was no moon . 
They had chosen this night purposely . 
They reached the guard house without alerting the men on the walls above , and Powers slipped through the door . 
Two men were on duty inside , playing pinochle , relaxed . 
They looked up in surprise as Powers came in . 
`` What are you doing out of the block '' ? 
`` It's Curtiss '' , he said , naming the man Rankin had hit . 
`` I've got to have help '' . 
They stared at him . 
The sergeant in charge climbed to his feet . 
`` What's wrong with him '' ? 
`` He's having some kind of a fit '' . 
The sergeant turned to the door . 
As he passed through it Barton shoved his gun against the man's side . 
`` One sound and you're dead '' . 
The sergeant froze . 
Powers had not followed . 
Powers was covering the remaining guard . 
The man half-reached for the cord of the alarm bell . 
Powers knocked his arm aside . 
Deliberately , with none of Rankin's viciousness , he laid the barrel of his gun alongside the guard's head . 
They were free . 
Even Barton could not quite believe it . 
It had gone without a hitch . 
They slid through the wicket in the big gate , ghosted across the dark ground . 
Five minutes later they reached the horses . 
Barton was relieved to see that Carl Dill and Emmett Foster had brought extra mounts . 
He had been worried that with Miller and Rankin added to the escape party they would be short . 
No one hurried . 
They walked the horses , heading along the river , Barton and Emmett Foster in the lead , seven men riding quietly through the night . 
The only thing which would have attracted attention was that two wore the uniform of prison guards , three the striped suits of convicts . 
Five miles . 
In a small grove against the river they halted , turning deep into the protection of the trees . 
Foster had brought extra clothing also . 
A good man , Emmett . 
He had been one of the original Night Riders , one who had escaped the trial . 
It was to him that Barton had sent Carl Dill on Dill's release from the prison . 
Clyde Miller was crying softly to himself , shedding his striped suit and fumbling into the nondescript butternut pants , the worn brown shirt . 
Kid Boyd was unusually silent , Rankin watchful , a few paces apart . 
Barton finished his dressing and extended his hand to Powers . 
`` I won't even try to thank you '' . 
The ex-prison guard was embarrassed . 
He said in a studied voice , `` I didn't do it for you . 
I did it for the valley . 
You're the only man the Night Riders will follow . 
We've been starving and I don't like to starve '' . 
Barton turned away , his eyes falling upon Rankin beside his horse . 
`` Good luck '' . 
The murderer lifted his head . 
`` Meaning you want me to ride out '' ? 
`` You aren't one of us . 
There's nothing for you here '' . 
`` I got no place to go '' . 
Barton hesitated . 
He did not trust Rankin , his violent temper , his killer instinct . 
But ten years in prison had taught him realities . 
They were in a fight , outweighed in both numbers and money . 
It was all right to put a bunch of ranchers onto horses , to call them Night Riders , to set out to attack the largest mining combination the country had ever seen if all they wanted was adventure . 
But if they really hoped to succeed they needed professionals , men who knew how to use a gun against men , who would match the killers on the other side . 
`` Your choice '' , he said briefly , and turned to Kid Boyd . 
`` Bury those uniforms so they won't be found '' . 
Then Barton touched Carl Dill's arm and moved off , up the river bank . 
He wanted a careful , uninterrupted report from Dill on the conditions in the valley . 
They squatted on their heels in the deep mud and Dill found a cigar in his breast pocket , passing it over silently . 
He too knew the agony of going for weeks , sometimes months without the solace of tobacco . 
Mitchell Barton drew in the fragrance deeply , letting the smoke lie warm and soothing in his throat for a moment before he exhaled . 
Through the gloom he could not see the man beside him clearly but he knew him thoroughly . 
For his first five years in prison , they had shared a cell . 
Carl Dill was neither a rancher nor a valley man . 
He had been the auditor for the mining syndicate , and he had stolen fifty thousand dollars of the syndicate's money . 
He had done time for the theft . 
The one thing they had in common was their hatred . 
Both hated Donald Kruger . 
It had drawn them together , and since his release from prison Dill had worked tirelessly to effect this night's escape . 
He said now , `` I've got the perfect headquarters set up . 
The old Haskell mine '' . 
Mitch Barton knew the place . 
Twenty years before a group of Easterners had bought out the Haskell claims in the rocky hills south of Grass Valley . 
They had spent a million dollars , carving in a road , putting up buildings , drilling their haulage tunnel . 
Then the vein had petered out and the whole project had been abandoned . 
`` The road's washed badly '' , said Dill , `` but there's a trail you can get over with a horse . 
A company of cavalry couldn't come in there if two men were guarding that trail '' . 
Barton nodded . 
`` How do the valley people feel '' ? 
`` As mad as ever . 
But Kruger's men keep them off balance , and they don't trust me . 
I'm an outsider . 
When they learn you're in the hills though , they'll rally , don't worry about that '' . 
Barton waited for a long moment , then asked the question which lay always uppermost in his mind . 
`` My boy . 
Did you find him '' ? 
Dill was silent as if he hated to answer , and Barton had a cold , sick feeling of apprehension . 
`` He's in Morgan's Ferry '' . 
Barton half-straightened in surprise . 
`` What's he doing there '' ? 
Again Dill hesitated . 
`` Dealing faro '' . 
`` Dealing faro ? 
How come '' ? 
`` Your sister-in-law has the faro bank in Cap Ayres' saloon '' . 
Barton cursed under his breath . 
After another long pause he asked , `` How many people know who they are '' ? 
`` Everyone . 
Your cousin Finley saw to that . 
He's quite a rat , you know . 
He sold out to Kruger's men . 
He's informed them of everything you've ever written him . 
He wants your ranch '' . 
Barton stood up . 
He said tensely , `` All right . 
Let's go get the boy '' . 
Dill had come up also . 
`` I was afraid of this . 
I almost didn't tell you '' . 
`` If you hadn't I'd have killed you '' . 
Dill's voice tightened . 
`` But you can't ride into the Ferry . 
That's what they'll expect you to do . 
They'll be there waiting for you . 
I understand how you feel about the child . 
'' `` The hell you do '' . 
Barton's voice was rougher than Dill had ever heard it . 
`` I never saw him . 
My wife died in childbirth after I was sent away . 
`` I can't leave him there . 
Donald Kruger would like nothing better than to hold him as hostage , and I wouldn't entrust a snake to his tender care . 
I've got to get the boy . 
Let's ride '' . 
Chapter two Barton's men cut the telegraph wires in half a dozen places , carrying away whole sections to make repairs more difficult . 
It was over an hour before their escape was discovered , but still the news that Barton was free flashed across the central portion of the state . 
It reached Donald Kruger in his massive home in Burlingame . 
It reached the mines at North San Juan and Bloomfield . 
It brought men out of bed and sent them into hurried conferences . 
For everyone involved knew that the whole valley was a powder keg , and Mitchell Barton the fuse which could send it into explosive violence . 
Creighton Hague sat in his office above the Ione pit . 
The office was of logs , four rooms , each heated by an iron stove . 
The building was dwarfed by the scene outside . 
There a dozen giant monitors played their seventy-five-foot jets of water against the huge seam of tertiary gravel which was the mountainside . 
The gravel was the bed of an ancient river , buckled in some prehistoric upheaval of earth . 
It was partially cemented by ages and pressure , yet it crumpled before the onslaught of the powerful streams , the force of a thousand fire hoses , and with the gold it held washed down through the long sluices . 
A million dollars' of gold a month . 
A million tons of rock and soil and brush . 
The monitors ran twenty-four hours each day . 
Their roar , like the swelling volume of a hundred tornadoes could be heard for miles . 
Hague , like all who worked near the pits , was partly deafened from the constant assault against his eardrums . 
He was a big man , wearing a neat flannel shirt against the cold foothill air . 
Fat showed in loose rolls beneath the shirt . 
Ten years older than Mitch Barton , he had clawed his way up from mucker in the pits to manager of the operation . 
He was proud of his accomplishments , proud of his job , proud that Donald Kruger and his associates trusted him . 
He lived and breathed for the mining company . 
No man could have reached his spot nor held it without being ruthless , and Hague had made a virtue of ruthlessness all of his life . 
There came a ghost of noise at the office door and Hague swung to see Kodyke in the entrance from the outer room . 
Hague had never accustomed himself to Kodyke . 
The man was tall , thin , with a narrow face and a too-large nose . 
The eyes always held Hague , eyes of a dead man , lidless as a lizard's , with the fixed intensity of a cobra . 
Even Hague was repelled by the machinelike deadliness that was Kodyke . 
He knew nothing about the man's history . 
Kodyke had appeared at the mine one day bearing a letter from Kruger . 
Kodyke was to head the dread company police . 
He ran the change rooms . 
He threw out the hi-graders . 
He supervised the cleanups and handled the shipments of raw gold which each week went out to San Francisco . 
Hague squeezed down his uneasy dislike . 
He pulled open the top drawer of his desk and drew out a tintype . 
`` This is Mitchell Barton . 
He broke out of Folsom last night . 
Apparently he bribed one of the guards . 
We want him back there or we want him dead '' . 
Kodyke took the picture in a lean hand , studying it thoughtfully . 
`` Dangerous '' ? 
`` Dangerous , yes . 
You know how the ranchers in the valley are . 
They blame us for all their troubles . 
Ten years ago they blew up some of our ditches . 
It cost us a hundred thousand dollars and thirty days lost time to fix them . 
We don't want Barton's Night Riders loose again '' . 
The gunman nodded , slipping the picture into his breast pocket , saying nothing . 
Normally Hague wasted no words , but now he found himself unable to stop their flow although he knew Kodyke was aware of all he said . 
If she sensed any unusual preoccupation on the part of her mother , she did not comment upon it . 
After they had finished eating , Melissa took Sprite the kitten under her arm -- `` so that Auntie Grace can teach it about the whistle '' -- and climbed into the station wagon beside her mother . 
She had offered to walk , but Pamela knew she would not feel comfortable about her child until she had personally confided her to the care of the little pink woman who chose to be called `` Auntie '' . 
When they reached their neighbor's house , Pamela said a few polite words to Grace and kissed Melissa lightly on the forehead , the impulse prompted by a stray thought -- of the type to which she was frequently subject these days -- that they might never see one another again . 
Then she turned the station wagon around and headed it back down the hill , with the village as her ostensible destination . 
As she drove , she thought about her plan . 
It was really quite simple . 
So simple , in fact , that it might even work -- although Pamela , now , in her new frame of mind , was careful not to pretend too much assurance . 
That mistake , she thought , had cost her dearly these past few days , and she wanted to avoid falling into any more of the traps that the mountain might set for her . 
She must be cautious so as not to alert the scheming forest . 
When the station wagon drew abreast of the dusty dirt road that led up to the porch of the Culver house , Pamela turned the wheel , guiding the car to its familiar parking spot close to the house , and stopped . 
All of her movements were careful and methodical , partaking of the stealth of a criminal who has plotted his felony for months in advance and knows exactly which step to take next in the course of the final execution of his crime . 
She locked the ignition , removed the keys , stepped out of the car and went into the house . 
Here , she dropped the keys on a small table beside the door and went upstairs to her bedroom . 
On her bureau lay a small , brass ornament of simple design and faded engraving -- an object which , Pamela believed now , had been the property of her great-grandfather , Major Hiram Munroe Culver . 
He had belonged to this land and , perhaps , had desecrated it -- and this was the only material symbol that remained of him . 
If she , Pamela , were being held responsible for his crimes , then hers must be the final act of expiation . 
She would return this symbol to the mountain , as one pours seed back into the soil every Spring or as ancient fertility cults demand annual human sacrifice . 
Slowly and thoughtfully , she slipped the ornament into the pocket of her slacks , moved down the stairs and out of the house . 
There was only one place where the mountain might receive her -- that unnamed , unnameable pool harbored in its secret bosom . 
Atonement , if atonement were possible , could only be made at that sacred , sacrificial basin . 
It was there that she would have to enact her renunciation , beg forgiveness . 
Perhaps it was insane , Pamela thought . 
Perhaps it was all a vividly conceived dream . 
But she was caught in it , and she faced the terrible possibility that , if it were a dream , it was one from which she might never awaken . 
Facing the forest now , she who had not dared to enter it before , walked between two trees at random and headed in what she believed was the direction of the pool . 
She remembered little of her previous journey there with Grace , and she could but hope that her dedication to her mission would enable her to accomplish it . 
The forest was open and freely welcoming , extending an enchanted hand . 
The ground was covered with soft pine needles and the slope was gentle . 
Birds chirped and chattered in the trees and the sun , all dewy-eyed and soft , caressed her shoulders warmly from time to time . 
It was not , thought Pamela , such an evil place after all . 
No wonder Melissa responded so completely to its beckoning . 
Perhaps she had no reason to fear these trees that whispered their secrets above her head as she passed . 
Was it not possible , after all , that the forest was in league with her and her child that its sympathy lay with the Culvers that she had erred in failing to understand this ? 
Pamela felt calm and peaceful as she walked along . 
The slight flutter that had disturbed the motion of her heart when she entered the forest was gone now , and even the dim groves of trees through which she occasionally passed did not reawaken her fear . 
She regarded them as signs that she was nearing the glen she sought , and she was glad to at last be doing something positive in her unenunciated , undefined struggle with the mountain and its darkling inhabitants . 
Having persisted too long in deliberate ignorance and denial of the forces that threatened her , Pamela was relieved now to admit their potency and to be taking definite steps toward grappling with them . 
A few days ago , she would have thought such an expedition as this utterly ridiculous ; ; today , on the contrary , it seemed utterly reasonable . 
She did not pause to consider what she would do if her plan should fail ; ; she directed all of her mental and physical energy toward achieving this one goal . 
If , as she walked , her steps fumbled from time to time , she chose to ignore that omen . 
If the slope grew steeper and the groves more dim , she tried not to heed . 
Success depended upon maintaining her equanimity ; ; she must be poised and proud and unafraid in order to prove to the mountain that she was in earnest . 
The forest took on an impersonal aspect . 
It did not care what sort of person prowled its woods , plucked at its bark or stripped the berries from its bushes . 
Unconcerned , indifferent , unmotivated , the forest was simply there -- fighting man's depredations with more abundant growth and man's follies with its own musical evening laughter . 
Red man or white man , pacifist or killer , the forest would accept them all -- knowing that it could thrive equally well on slaughter and beneficence ; ; knowing that its ageless mass would always dwarf the short span of time allotted to any man . 
Pamela shook her head . 
She must not think about time . 
That was another one of those traps . 
In her grim pursuit of tranquillity , Pamela focused her thoughts on her husband . 
If , when this was all over , she found the words to tell him about it , she wondered if he would ever understand . 
How could he comprehend her need when he himself was innocent ? 
Indian ghosts would not impinge upon his nights , nor would his days be haunted by the dimly-outlined , ill-conceived figure of her benighted ancestor . 
His bright , daylight mind would whistle away such images ; ; they would not dare to face his scoffing . 
Pamela was glad Jim was nowhere near . 
His presence would have interfered with her duty . 
The mountainside grew steeper and she slipped once or twice on the smooth pine needles . 
The trees huddled more closely together , their limbs and leaves intertwined in a coarse curtain against the sun . 
Bushes and vines abetted the rocks in forming thorny detours for the struggling stranger , and without the direct light of the sun to act as compass , Pamela could no longer be positive of her direction . 
Nevertheless , she continued to move upward . 
She was sure she would reach the pool by climbing , and she clung to that belief despite the increasing number of obstacles . 
The forest had become an alien world where she strove , alone , unprotected , unguided , to deal with whatever hindrances were offered . 
It was a bold , dark castle of pine boughs that stood like a medieval fortress , eclipsing the sun and human time . 
At one and the same time , she was within it but still searching for the drawbridge that would give her entry . 
Silence came into the forest -- a solid being that clapped its hand over the murmuring mouths of the birds and the whispered comfort of the trees . 
Silence walked at Pamela's side , its presence numbingly close , yet too far for her to hear . 
Silence stood in front of her , waiting , and in back of her , blocking her retreat . 
She stumbled over the root of a tree that protruded maliciously above the earth . 
In spite of her attempt to preserve her balance , she fell , bruising her arm on a naked stone . 
For a moment , she could not catch her breath and then , her breath returning in short , frightened spasms , she lifted herself to her feet laboriously . 
She started to brush the dirt and bits of leaves off her clothes . 
Her arm bled slightly , and the offended skin cried out in pain . 
She looked around . 
She was bewildered . 
She seemed to have come such a long distance -- too far for her destination which had wilfully been swallowed up in the greedy gloom of the trees . 
She stood quite still , trying to focus upon a direction in which to turn , a path to follow , a clue to guide her . 
She was standing in a thick grove . 
The trees were crowded so closely together that their branches overlapped , virtually shutting out the sun completely . 
The earth smelled moist and pungent as it might in a cave deprived of the cleansing effect of the sun's rays . 
She had the feeling that , under the mouldering leaves , there would be the bodies of dead animals , quietly decaying and giving their soil back to the mountain . 
The thought made Pamela shudder . 
A terrible chill swept through the grove . 
Not a breeze exactly , but a pocket of icy air that settled with a loathsome familiarity upon the deep confines of the grove , catching Pamela in a leering embrace . 
There was a peculiar density about it , a thick substance that could be sensed but never identified , never actually perceived . 
Where before had she felt or dreamt or imagined such a scene ? 
She already knew this unwholesome , chilling atmosphere that was somehow grotesquely alive . 
It enclosed her clammy hands and twined around her ankles . 
It crept into the open neck of her blouse and slid down her body , seeping into her flesh through all the quivering pores of her skin . 
It crawled across her breasts , suffocating the life in her nipples . 
It circled her thighs , exploring with its icy tentacles . 
It entered her body with the ghastly intimacy of an incubus , and its particles , spreading , creeping , crawling , joined themselves into steel bands that constricted her knees so tightly that they ached ; ; stifled her lungs so that her breath came in harsh gasps ; ; clutched her throat and sucked up the moisture in her mouth so that her tongue was dry and hard and stuck to the roof of her mouth and her teeth were clenched together in the rigid fixture of her jaws . 
She had to get away from here before this demoniac possession swallowed up the liquid of her eyes and sank into the fibers of her brain , depriving her of reason and sight . 
But she did not know which way to go . 
The shadows of the trees engulfed her , foreclosing every possible exit from the grove . 
She had been snared here by a vile sensuality that writhed around her throat in ever-tightening circles . 
She could not scream , for even if a sound could take shape within her parched mouth , who would hear , who would listen ? 
Does the mountain listen ? 
Pamela groped blindly . 
She had to escape . 
She had to move in some direction -- any direction that would take her away from this evil place . 
She thrust forward through the shadows and the trees that resisted her and tried to fling her back . 
Her own body protested , aching painfully where the blood in her veins had congealed , where cold demon wisps still clung and caressed . 
Every movement she made seemed unnecessarily noisy . 
Twigs cracked loudly under her feet ; ; bushes swished and scratched at her slacks ; ; tree branches snapped as she pushed them ruthlessly away from her . 
Miraculously , she found exactly the right statement . 
She began it deliberately , so that none of her words would be lost on him . 
`` I want to tell you something Thomas DeMontez Lord . 
I'm well aware that you've got a pedigree as long as my leg , and that I don't amount to anything . 
But '' -- `` But it don't matter a-tall '' , Lord supplied fondly . 
`` To me you'll always be the girl o' my dreams , an' the sweetest flower that grows '' . 
Beaming idiotically , he pooched out his lips and attempted to kiss her . 
She yanked away from him furiously . 
`` You shut up ! 
Shu-tt up-pp ! 
I've got something to say to you , and by God you're going to listen . 
Do you hear me ? 
You're going to listen '' ! 
Lord nodded agreeably . 
He said he wanted very much to listen . 
He knew that anything a brainy little lady like her had to say would be plumb important , as well as pleasin' to the ear , and he didn't want to miss a word of it . 
So would she mind speaking a little louder ? 
`` I think you stink , Tom Lord ! 
I think you're mean and hateful and stupid , and -- louder '' ? 
Said Joyce . 
`` Uh-huh . 
So I can hear you while I'm checkin' the car . 
Looks like we might be in for a speck of trouble '' . 
He opened the door and got out . 
He waited at the car side for a moment , looking down at her expectantly . 
`` Well ? 
Wasn't you goin' to say somethin' '' ? 
Then , helpfully , as she merely stared at him in weary silence , `` Maybe you could write it down for me , huh ? 
Print it in real big letters , an' I can cipher it out later '' . 
`` Aah , go on '' , she said . 
`` Just go the hell on '' . 
He grinned , nodded , and walked around to the front of the car . 
Lips pursed mournfully , he stared down at its crazily sagging left side . 
Then he hunkered down on the heels of his handmade boots , peered into the orderly chaos of axle , shock absorber , and spring . 
He went prone on his stomach , the better to pursue his examination . 
After a time , he straightened again , brushing the red Permian dust from his hands , slapping it from his six-dollar levis and his tailored , twenty-five-dollar shirt . 
He wore no gun -- a strange ommission for a peace officer in this country . 
Never , he'd once told Joyce , had he encountered any man or situation that called for a gun . 
And he really feels that way , she thought . 
That's really all he's got , all he is . 
Just a big pile of self-confidence in an almost teensy package . 
If I could make myself feel the same way She studied him hopefully , yearningly ; ; against the limitless background of sky and wasteland it was easy to confirm her analysis . 
Here in the God-forsaken place , the westerly end of nowhere , Tom Lord looked almost insignificant , almost contemptible . 
He was handsome , with his coal-black hair and eyes , his fine-chiseled features . 
But she'd known plenty of handsomer guys , and , conceding his good looks , what was there left ? 
He wasn't a big man ; ; rather on the medium side . 
Neither was he very powerful of build . 
He could move very quickly , she knew ( although he seldom found occasion to do so ) , but he was more wiry than truly strong . 
And his relatively small hands and feet gave him an almost delicate appearance . 
Just nothing , she told herself . 
Just so darned sure of himself that he puts the Indian sign on everyone . 
But , by gosh , I want him and I'm going to have him ! 
He caught her eye , came back around the car with the boot-wearer ; ; teetering , half-mincing walk . 
Why did these yokels still wear boots , anyway , when most had scarcely sat a horse in years ? 
He slid in at her side , tucked a cigar into his mouth , and politely proffered one to her . 
`` Oh , cut it out , Tom '' ! 
She snapped . 
`` Can't you stop that stupid clowning for even a minute '' ? 
`` This ain't your brand , maybe '' , Lord suggested . 
`` Or maybe you just don't feel like a cigar '' ? 
`` I feel like getting back to town , that's what I feel like ! 
Now , are you going to take me or am I supposed to walk '' ? 
`` Might get there faster walkin' '' , Lord drawled , `` seein' as how I got a busted front spring . 
On the other hand , howsomever , maybe you wouldn't either . 
I figger it's probl'y a sixty-five-mile walk , and I c'n maybe get this spring patched up in a couple of hours '' . 
`` How -- with what ? 
There's nothing out here but rattlesnakes '' . 
`` Now , ain't it the truth '' ? 
Lord laughed with secret amusement . 
`` Not a danged thing but rattlesnakes , so I reckon I'll get the boss rattler to help me '' . 
`` Tom ! 
For God's sake '' ! 
`` Looky '' . 
He pointed , cutting her off . 
`` See that wildcat '' ? 
She saw it then , the distant derrick of the wildcat -- a test well in unexplored country . 
And even with her limited knowledge of such things , she knew that the car could be repaired there ; ; sufficiently , at least , to get them back into town . 
A wildcatter had to be prepared for almost any emergency . 
He had to depend on himself , since he was invariably miles and hours away from others . 
`` Well , let's get going '' , she said impatiently . 
`` I '' -- She broke off , frowning . 
`` What did you mean by that rattlesnake gag ? 
Getting the boss rattlesnake to help you '' ? 
`` Why , I meant what I said '' , Lord declared . 
`` What else would I mean , anyways '' ? 
She looked at him , lips compressed . 
Then , with a shrug of pretended indifference , she took a compact from her purse and went through the motions of fixing her make-up . 
In his mood , it was the best way to handle him ; ; that is , to show no curiosity whatsoever . 
Otherwise , she would be baited into a tantrum -- teased and provoked until she lost control of herself , and thus lost still another battle in the maddening struggle of Tom Lord Vs. Joyce Lakewood . 
The car lurched along at a snail's crawl , the left-front mudguard banging and scraping against the tire , occasionally scraping against the road itself . 
Lord whistled tunelessly as he fought the steering wheel . 
He seemed very pleased with himself , as though some intricate scheme was working out exactly as he had planned . 
Along with this self-satisfaction , however , Joyce sensed a growing tension . 
It poured out of him like an electric current , a feeling that the muscles and nerves of his fine-drawn body were coiling for action , and that that action would be all that he anticipated . 
Joyce had seen him like this once before -- more than once , actually , but on one particularly memorable occasion . 
That was the day that he had practically mopped up the main street of Big Sands with Aaron McBride , field boss for the Highlands Oil & Gas Company . 
Tom had been laying for Aaron McBride for a long time , just waiting to catch him out of line . 
McBride gave him his opportunity when he showed up in town with a pistol on his hip . 
He had a legitimate reason for wearing it . 
It was payday for Highlands , and he was packing a lot of money back into the oil fields . 
Moreover , as long as the weapon was carried openly , the sheriff's office had made no previous issue of it . 
`` So what's this all about '' ? 
He demanded , when Lord confronted him . 
I'm not the only man in town with a gun , or the only one without a permit '' . 
It was the wrong thing to say . 
By failing to do as he was told instantly -- to take out a permit or return the gun to his car -- he had played into Lord's hands . 
The trouble was that he had virtually had to protest . 
The deputy had forced him to by his manner of accosting him . 
So , `` How about it '' ? 
He said . 
`` Why single me out on this permit deal '' ? 
`` Well , I'll tell you about that '' , Lord told him . 
`` We aim t' be see-lective , y'know ? 
Don't like to bother no one unless we have to , which I figger we do , in your case . 
Figger we got to be plumb careful with any of you Highlands big shots '' . 
McBride reddened . 
He himself had heard that there was gangster money in the company , but that had nothing to do with him . 
He was an honest man doing a hard job , and the implication that he was anything else was unbearable . 
`` Look , Lord '' , he said hoarsely . 
`` I know you've got a grudge against me , and maybe I can't blame you . 
You think that Highlands swindled you and I helped 'em do it . 
But you're all wrong , man ! 
I'm no lawyer . 
I just do what I'm told , and '' -- `` uh-huh . 
An' that could mean trouble with a fella that's workin' for crooks . 
So you get rid of that pistol right now , Mis-ter McBride . 
You do that or take you out a permit right now '' . 
McBride couldn't do either , of course . 
Not immediately , as the deputy demanded . 
Not without a face-saving respite of at least a few minutes . 
To do so would make his job well-nigh impossible . 
Oil-field workers were a rough-tough lot . 
How could he exert authority over them -- make them toe the line , as he had to -- if he knuckled under to this small-town clown ? 
`` I'll get around to it a little later '' , he mumbled desperately . 
`` Just as soon as I go to the bank , and '' -- `` huh-uh . 
Now , Mis-ter McBride '' , said Lord , and he laid a firmly restraining hand on the field boss's arm . 
It was strictly the deputy's game , but McBride had gone too far to throw in . 
Now , he could only play the last card in what was probably the world's coldest deck . 
He flung off Lord's hand and attempted to push past him , inadvertently shoving him into a storefront . 
It was practically the last move that McBride made of his own volition . 
Lord slugged him in the stomach , so hard that the organ almost pressed against his spine . 
Then , as he doubled , gasping , vomiting the breakfast he had so lately eaten , Lord straightened him with an uppercut . 
A rabbit punch redoubled him . 
And then there was a numbing blow to the heart , and another gut-flattening blow to the stomach But he couldn't keep up with them . 
No more could he defend himself against them . 
He seemed to be fighting not one man but a dozen . 
And he could no longer think of face-saving , of honor , but only of escape . 
Why , he's going to kill me , he thought wildly . 
I meant him no harm . 
I've given willful hurt to no man . 
I was just doing my job , just following orders , and for that he's going to kill me . 
Beat me to death in front of a hundred people . 
Somehow more terrible than the certainty that he was about to die was the knowledge that Lord would probably not suffer for it : the murder would go unpunished . 
He , McBride , would be cited as in the wrong , and he , Lord , would go scot-free , an officer who had only done his duty , though perhaps too energetically . 
McBride staggered into the street , flopped sprawling in the stinging dust . 
Fear-maddened , fleeing the lengthening shadow of death , he scrambled to his feet again . 
He couldn't see ; ; he was long past the point of coherent thinking . 
Dimly , he heard laughter , hoots of derision , but he could not read the racket properly . 
He could not grasp that Lord had withdrawn from the fight minutes ago , and that his leaden arms were flailing at nothing but the air . 
He hated them too much to understand -- the people of this isolated law-unto-itself world that was Lord's world . 
This , he was sure , was the way they would act ; ; laughing at a dying man , laughing as a man was beaten to death . 
And nothing would be done about it . 
Nothing unless Donna ! 
Donna , his young wife , the girl who was both daughter and wife to him . 
Donna was like he was . 
She lived by the rules , never compromising , never blinded or diverted by circumstance . 
And Donna would -- When he regained consciousness he was in Lord's house , in the office of Doctor Lord , the deputy's deceased father . 
The Brannon outfit -- known as the Slash-B because of its brand -- reached Hondo Creek before sundown . 
The herd was watered and then thrown onto a broad grass flat which was to be the first night's bedground . 
Two of the new hands , a Mexican named Jose Amado and a kid known only as Laredo , were picked for the first trick of riding night herd . 
The rest of the crew offsaddled their mounts and turned them into the remuda . 
They got tin cups of coffee from the big pot on the coosie's fire , rolled and lighted brown-paper cigarettes , lounged about . 
There was some idle talk , a listless discussion of this or that small happening during the day's drive . 
But they deliberately avoided the one subject that had them all curious : the failure of the boss's wife and son to join the outfit . 
It especially bothered the older hands . 
The cook , Mateo Garcia , had arrived there long before the herd . 
He'd started a fire and put coffee on , and now was busy at the work board of his chuck wagon . 
He was readying a batch of sourdough biscuits for the Dutch oven . 
Supper would be ready within the hour . 
The Maguire family was setting up a separate camp nearby . 
Billie had unhitched the mules from both Tom Brannon's and his father's wagon . 
Hank had gathered wood for a cookfire , and his wife was busy at it now . 
Conchita kept an eye on the twins and little Elena , trying to keep them from falling into the creek by which they persisted in playing . 
Conchita nagged at the younger children , attempting without success to keep her thoughts off Tom Brannon . 
Tom Brannon had caught up with the outfit shortly after the Maguires joined it , which had been at midday . 
He'd come alone , without his wife and child . 
He'd been in an angry mood : Conchita had thought his face almost ugly with the anger in him . 
She wondered what had taken place in town , between him and his wife . 
She wished that she could talk to her mother about it . 
Not that her mother knew what had happened , but they could speculate upon it . 
But her mother would rebuke her if she mentioned it , and say that it was none of her concern . 
`` Pat , get out of that creek ! 
You too , Sean ! 
Elena , you'll get mud all over your dress '' ! 
Even as she called to the children , Conchita let her gaze seek Tom Brannon . 
Tomas , she called him -- as the Mexican hands did . 
He was in earnest conversation with her father and the old vaquero , Luis Hernandez . 
Whatever they are talking about ? 
Conchita wondered . 
It bothered her that she probably would never know . 
Certainly , she wouldn't dare ask her father afterward . 
He would tell her not to pry into grownups' affairs -- as though she were a little kid like Elena ! 
At the moment , the three men were not saying much of anything . 
They were sitting on their heels , rider-fashion , over by the still empty calf wagon . 
Brannon was hunkered down with his broad back to the left rear wheel , with the other two facing him . 
He held a cigarette in his right hand . 
It was burning away , forgotten . 
His face was clouded with unhappiness . 
He'd told Hank Maguire and Luis Hernandez about his wife's refusal to come with him and about what he now intended to do . 
They were considering it gravely , neither seeming to like what he planned . 
Finally Hernandez said , `` I could offer you advice , Tomas , but you wouldn't heed it '' . 
`` Let's hear it , anyway '' . 
`` Wait a little while . 
Let Senora Brannon live in her father's house for a time . 
Give her time to miss you . 
Maybe she will then come to you . 
After all , you want the senora as much as you want the boy . 
You need her even more than you need him '' . 
`` She won't change her mind '' , Brannon said . 
`` John Clayton will see to that '' . 
`` But after a time away from you . 
'' `` A year , Luis ? 
Five ? 
Ten ? 
How long should I wait '' ? 
`` Maybe in a year , Tomas . 
'' `` In a year she'll like living in Clayton's house too much to come back to me '' , Brannon said flatly . 
`` And the boy will be too much under his influence by then . 
I've got to take Danny away from Clayton before I lose him altogether . 
Hell , in a year or five or ten , the boy will have forgotten me -- his own father '' ! 
`` But to take him and leave his mother behind is not good '' . 
`` In my place , you'd follow such advice as you give me '' ? 
Hernandez looked suddenly uncertain . 
`` That I can't answer , for I can't imagine something like this happening to me . 
Maybe I should withdraw my advice -- no '' ? 
Brannon looked at Hank Maguire . 
`` And you ? 
What would you do in my place '' ? 
Hank shook his head . 
`` I don't know , Tom . 
Like Luis , I can't see something like this happening to me . 
With Maria and me , there's never any problem . 
Where I go , she goes -- and the kids with us . 
You're going to need your woman . 
And the boy will need his mother . 
If you take the one , you'd better take both '' . 
Brannon shook his head . 
`` I won't force Beth to come against her will . 
But I'm going to have my son '' . 
They were silent for a little while , each looking glum . 
Finally Luis Hernandez said , `` What must be , must be . 
I am with you , of course , Tomas '' . 
And Hank Maguire added , `` So am I , Tom '' . 
`` All right '' , Brannon said , rising . 
`` We'll ride out as soon as we've had chuck '' . 
Brannon timed it so that they rode in an hour after nightfall . 
They had for cover both darkness and a summer storm . 
During much of the fifteen-mile ride they had watched a lurid display of lightning in the sky to the east . 
Later , they'd heard the rumble of thunder and then , just outside Rockfork , they ran into rain . 
Those who had slickers donned them . 
The others put on old coats or ducking jackets , whichever they carried behind their saddle cantles . 
There were seven of them , enough for a show of strength -- to run a bluff . 
It was to be nothing more than that . 
There was to be no gunplay . 
If the bluff failed and they ran into trouble , Brannon had told the others , they would withdraw -- and he would come after his son another time . 
He didn't want to put himself outside the law . 
With him were Hank Maguire , Luis Hernandez , and Luis's son Pedro . 
The Ramirez brothers were also along . 
The seventh man was Red Hogan , a wiry little puncher with a wild streak and a liking for hell-raising . 
They were all good men . 
It was dark early , because of the storm . 
Also because of the storm , the streets of Rockfork were deserted . 
Lighted windows glowed jewel-bright through the downpour . 
They reined in before the town marshal's office , a box-sized building on Main Street . 
A lamp burned inside , but Brannon , peering through the window , saw that the office was empty . 
He'd hoped to catch Jesse Macklin there . 
`` Probably just stepped out '' , he said . 
`` Maybe to have supper . 
Red , come along . 
The rest of you wait here '' . 
With Red Hogan , he rode to the Welcome Cafe . 
Hogan got down from the saddle and had a look inside . 
`` Not there '' , he said , getting back onto his horse . 
`` Maybe he's at the hotel '' . 
They rode to the Rockfork House , a little farther along the opposite side of the street . 
They reined in there , Brannon remaining in the saddle while Hogan went to look for Jesse Macklin in the hotel dining room . 
Brannon had no slicker . 
He'd put on his old brown corduroy coat and it was already soaked . 
But he felt no physical discomfort . 
He was only vaguely aware of the sluicing rain . 
He hardly noticed the blue-green flashes of lightning and the hard claps of thunder . 
Hogan reappeared , stopped on the hotel porch , lifted a hand in signal . 
Brannon dismounted and climbed the steps . 
`` He's finished eating '' , Hogan said . 
`` Sitting with a cup of coffee now . 
It shouldn't be long '' . 
It seemed long , at least to Tom Brannon . 
He and Hogan waited by the door , one to either side . 
Macklin was the third man to come out , and he came unhurriedly . 
He was puffing on a cigar , and he was turning up his coat collar against the rain . 
It was not until he moved across the porch that he became aware of them , and then it was too late . 
They closed in fast , kept him from reaching inside his coat for his gun . 
`` Just come along '' , Brannon told him . 
`` Don't start anything you can't finish '' . 
`` Now , listen '' -- Macklin began . 
`` We'll talk over at your office '' . 
`` Brannon , I warn you '' ! 
`` Let's go , Marshal '' , Brannon said , and took him by the arm . 
Hogan gripped the lawman's other arm . 
They escorted him down from the porch and through the rain to his office . 
The other five Slash-B men followed them inside , crowding the small room . 
His face was stiff with anger when they let go of his arms . 
He looked at each of them in turn , Brannon last of all . 
`` I'll remember you '' , he said . 
`` Every last one of you . 
As for you , Brannon '' -- `` Put your gun on the desk , Marshal '' . 
`` Now , hold on , damn it ; ; I won't '' -- Red Hogan's patience ran out . 
He lifted the skirt of Macklin's coat , took his gun from its holster , tossed it onto the desk . 
`` Too much fooling around '' , he said . 
`` Don't press your luck , badge-toter '' . 
Brannon said , `` Now the key to the lockup , Marshal '' . 
`` Key '' ? 
Macklin said . 
`` What for '' ? 
`` Can't you guess '' ? 
Brannon said . 
`` We're putting you where you won't come to harm . 
Come on -- the key . 
Get it out '' ! 
`` Damned if I will . 
Brannon , you've assaulted a law officer and '' -- They moved in on him , crowded him from all sides . 
No man laid a hand on him , but the threat of violence was there . 
His face took on a sudden pallor , became beaded with sweat , and he seemed to have trouble with his breathing . 
He held out a moment longer , then his nerve gave under the pressure . 
He swore , and said , `` All right . 
It's here in my pocket '' . 
`` Get it out '' , Brannon ordered . 
Then , as Macklin obeyed : `` Now let's go out back '' . 
Resignedly , Macklin turned to the back door . 
They followed him into the rain and across to the squat stone building fifty feet to the rear . 
The door of the lockup was of oak planks and banded with strap iron . 
It was secured by an oversized padlock . 
Macklin balked again , not wanting to unlock and open the door . 
They crowded him in that threatening way once more , forced him to give in . 
Once the door was open , they crowded him inside the dark building . 
He was uttering threats in a low but savage voice when they closed and padlocked the door . 
They returned to the street , mounted their horses , rode through the rain to the big house on Houston Street . 
Its windows glowed with lamplight . 
Deputy Marshal Luke Harper still stood guard on the veranda , a forlorn , scarecrowish figure in the murky dark . 
He came to the edge of the veranda , peered down at them with his hand on his gun . 
`` Don't try it '' , Brannon told him , dismounting and starting up the steps with his men following . 
`` Don't get yourself killed for something that doesn't concern you '' . 
He strode past the now frightened man , entered the house . 
Miguel and Arturo Ramirez remained on the veranda to keep Harper from interfering . 
The others followed Brannon inside . 
They trailed him across the wide hallway to the parlor , four roughly garbed and tough-looking men who probably had never before ventured into such a house . 
They brought to it all the odors that clung to men like themselves , that of their own sweat , of campfire smoke , of horses and cattle . 
They tracked mud on the oaken floor , on the carpet . 
Their presence fouled the elegance of that room . 
And their arrival caught John Clayton and Charles Ansley off guard . 
The author of the anonymous notes seemed to be all-knowing . 
For men who had left cattle alone after getting their first notices had received no second . 
But the day of the deadline came and passed , and the men who had scoffed at the warnings laughed with satisfaction . 
For , with a single exception , nothing had happened to them . 
The exception was an Iron Mountain settler named William Lewis . 
After walking out to his corral that morning , he'd been amazed to see the dust puff up in front of his feet . 
A split second later , the distant crack of a rifle had sounded . 
He'd mounted up immediately and raced with a revolver ready toward the spot from which he'd estimated the shot had come . 
But he had found all of the thickets and points of cover deserted . 
There had been no sign of a rifleman and no track or trace to show that anyone had been near . 
Lewis was a man who had made a full-time job of cow stealing . 
He hadn't even pretended to be farming his spread . 
His land had never been plowed . 
He had done his rustling openly and boasted about it . 
He had received both first and second anonymous notices , and each time he had accused his neighbors of writing them . 
He had cursed at them and threatened them . 
He was a man , those neighbors testified later , who didn't have a friend in the world . 
William Lewis made the rounds of all who lived near him again , that August morning after a bullet landed at his feet , and once more he accused and threatened everyone . 
`` I'll be ready next time '' ! 
He raged . 
`` I'll be shootin' right back '' . 
He had his chance the very next morning , for exactly the same thing happened again . 
This time Lewis had his own rifle in his hands , and he threw some answering fire back at the mysterious far-off shot , then spent most of the day searching out the area . 
He found nothing , but he still refused to give up and move out . 
`` Just let me meet up with that damned bushwhackin' coward face-to-face '' ! 
He exploded . 
`` That's all I ask '' ! 
He never got that chance . 
For the unseen , ghostlike rifleman aimed a little higher the third time . 
A bullet smashed directly into the center of William Lewis' chest . 
He slumped against a log fence rail , then tried to lift himself . 
Two more shots followed in quick succession , dropping him limp and huddled on the ground . 
An inquest was held , and after a good deal of testimony about the anonymous notes , the county coroner estimated that the shooting had been done from a distance of 300 yards . 
Rumors of the offer Tom Horn had made at the Stockgrowers' Association meeting had leaked out by then , and as a grand jury investigation of the murder got underway , the prosecuting attorney , a Colonel Baird , ordered that the tall stock detective be summoned for questioning . 
It took some time to locate Horn . 
He was finally found in the Bates Hole region of Natrona County , two counties away . 
Prosecutor Baird immediately assumed he was hiding out there after the shooting and began preparing an indictment . 
But that indictment was never made . 
For Tom Horn , it turned out , had a number of rancher and cowboy witnesses ready and willing to swear with straight faces that he had been in Bates Hole the day of the killing . 
The former scout's alibi couldn't be shaken . 
The authorities had to release him . 
He immediately rode on to Cheyenne , threw a ten-day drinking spree and dropped some very strong hints among friends . 
`` Dead center at three hundred yards , that coroner said '' ! 
He'd grin . 
`` Three shots in that fella 'fore he hit the ground ! 
You reckon there's two men in this state can shoot like that '' ? 
Publicly , he denied everything . 
Privately , he created and magnified an image of himself as a hired assassin . 
For a blood-chilling ring of terror to the very sound of his name was the tool he needed for the job he'd promised to do . 
Tom Horn was soon back at work , giving his secret employers their money's worth . 
A good many beef-hungry settlers were accepting the death of William Lewis as proof that the warning notes were not idle threats . 
The company herds were being raided less often , and cabins and soddies all over the range were standing deserted . 
But there were other homesteaders who passed the Lewis murder off as a personal grudge killing , the work of one of his neighbors . 
The rustling problem was by no means solved . 
Even in the very area where the shooting had been done , cattle were still disappearing . 
For less than a dozen miles from the unplowed land of the dead man lived another settler who had ignored the warnings that his existence might be foreclosed on -- a blatant and defiant rustler named Fred Powell . 
`` Fred was mighty crude about the way he took in cattle '' his own hired man , Andy Ross , mentioned later . 
`` Everyone knew it , but he sort of acted like he didn't care who knew it -- even after them notes came , even after he'd heard about Lewis , even after he'd been shot at a couple o' times hisself '' ! 
On the morning of September 10 , 1895 , Powell and Ross rose at dawn and began their day's work . 
Haying time was close at hand , and they needed some strong branches to repair a hay rack . 
Harnessing a team to a buckboard , they drove out to a willow-lined creek about a half-mile off , then climbed down and began chopping . 
Andy Ross had just started swinging an ax at his second willow when the distant blast of a rifle sounded . 
He looked around in surprise , then noticed that Fred Powell was clutching his chest . 
The hired man ran over to help his boss . 
`` My God , I'm shot '' ! 
Powell gasped . 
And he collapsed and died instantly . 
Ross had no intention of searching for the assassin . 
He heaved the dead man onto the buckboard , yelled and lashed at the team and got out of there fast . 
But he brought back the sheriff and several deputies , and to the lawmen the entire affair seemed a repetition of the Lewis killing . 
A detailed scouring of the entire area revealed nothing beyond a ledge of rocks that might have been the rifleman's hiding place . 
There were no tracks of either hoofs or boots . 
Not even an empty cartridge case could be found . 
Once again , Tom Horn was the first and most likely suspect , and he was brought in for questioning immediately . 
Once again , he shook his head , kept his face expressionless and his voice very calm , and had a strongly supported alibi ready . 
Later , riding in for some lusty enjoyment of the liquor and professional ladies of Cheyenne , he laid claim to the killing with the vague insinuations he made . 
`` Exterminatin' cow thieves is just a business proposition with me '' , he'd blandly announce . 
`` And I sort o' got a corner on the market '' . 
`` Tom '' , a friend asked him once , `` how come you bushwhacked them rustlers ? 
They wouldn't o' stood no chance with you in a plain , straight-out shoot-down '' . 
He had lots of friends , then as always . 
Even as he became widely known as a professional killer , nearly every cowboy and rancher in Wyoming seemed proud to call him a friend . 
No man's name brought more cheers when it was announced in a rodeo . 
`` Well '' , he explained , `` s'posin' you was a nester swingin' the long rope ? 
Which would you be most scairt of -- a dry-gulchin' or a shoot-down '' ? 
`` Yeah , I can see that '' , the friend was forced to agree . 
`` But well , it just don't seem sportin' somehow '' ! 
`` Sportin' '' ! 
The tall sunburnt rustler-hunter stared in amazement . 
`` Sportin' '' ! 
He echoed again in soft wonder . 
`` I seen a lot o' things in my time . 
I found a trooper once the Apache had spread-eagled on an ant hill , and another time we ran across some teamsters they'd caught , tied upside down on their own wagon wheels over little fires until their brains was exploded right out o' their skulls . 
I heard o' Texas cattlemen wrappin' a cow thief up in green hides and lettin' the sun shrink 'em and squeeze him to death . 
But there's one thing I never seen or heard of , one thing I just don't think there is , and that's a sportin' way o' killin' a man '' ! 
After the first two murders , the warning notes were rarely ignored . 
The lesson had been learned . 
The examples were plain . 
When Fred Powell's brother-in-law , Charlie Keane , moved into the dead man's home , the anonymous letter writer took no chances on Charlie taking up where Fred had left off and wasted no time on a first notice : If you don't leave this country within 3 days , your life will be taken the same as Powell's was . 
This was the message found tacked to the cabin door . 
Keane left , within three days . 
All through Albany and Laramie counties , other men were doing the same . 
Houses of settlers who'd treated the company herds as a natural resource , free for the taking , were sitting empty , with weeds growing high in their yards . 
The small half-heartedly tended fields of men who'd spent more time rustling cattle than farming were lying fallow . 
No cow thief could count on a jury of his sympathetic peers to free him any longer . 
Jury , judge and executioner were riding the range in the form of a single unknown figure that could materialize anywhere , at any time , to dispense an ancient brand of justice the men of the new West had believed long outdated . 
For three straight years , Tom Horn patrolled the southern Wyoming pastures , and how many men he killed after Lewis and Powell ( if he killed Lewis and Powell ) will never be known . 
It is possible , although highly doubtful , that he killed none at all but merely let his reputation work for him by privately claiming every unsolved murder in the state . 
It is also possible , but equally doubtful , that he actually shot down the hundreds of men with which his legend credits him . 
For that legend was growing explosively , Rumor was insisting he received a price of $600 a man . 
( The best evidence is that he received a monthly wage of about $125 , very good money in an era when top hands worked for $30 and found . 
) Rumor had it he slipped two small rocks under each victim's head as a sort of trademark . 
( A detailed search of old coroner's reports fails to substantiate this in the slightest . 
) One thing was certain -- his method was effective , so effective that after a time even the warning notices were often unnecessary . 
The mere fact that the tall figure with the rifle and field glasses had been seen riding that way was enough to frighten three rustling homesteaders out of the Upper Laramie country in a single week . 
`` My reputation's my stock in trade '' , Tom mentioned more than once . 
He evidently couldn't foresee that it might be his downfall in the end . 
He had made himself the personification of the Devil to the homesteaders . 
But to the cattlemen who had been facing bankruptcy from rustling losses and to the cowboys who had been faced with lay-offs a few years earlier , he was becoming a vastly different type of legendary figure . 
Such ranchers as Coble and Clay and the Bosler brothers carried him on their books as a cowhand even while he was receiving a much larger salary from parties unknown . 
He made their spreads his headquarters , and he helped out in their roundups . 
In the cow camps , Tom Horn was regarded as a hero , as the same kind of champion he was when he entered and invariably won the local rodeos . 
The hands and their bosses saw him as a lone knight of the range , waging a dedicated crusade against a lawless new society that was threatening a beloved way of life . 
The wailing , guitar-strumming minstrels of the cattle kingdom made up songs about him . 
By 1898 , rustling losses had been driven down to the lowest level ever seen in Wyoming . 
When several minutes had passed and Curt hadn't emerged from the livery stable , Brenner reentered the hotel and faced Summers across the counter . 
`` I have a little job for you , Charlie . 
I'm sure you won't mind doing me a small favor '' . 
Brenner's voice was oily , but Summers wasn't fooled . 
He moistened his lips uneasily . 
`` What is it you want me to do , Mr. Brenner '' ? 
Brenner shrugged carelessly . 
`` It's very simple . 
I just want you to take a message to Diane Molinari . 
Tell her to come here to the hotel '' . 
Vastly relieved , Summers nodded and started toward the door . 
`` One thing , Summers '' , Brenner said . 
`` You're not to mention my name . 
Tell her Curt Adams wants to see her '' . 
Summers pulled up short , and turned around . 
`` I don't know , Mr. Brenner '' , he said haltingly , beginning to get an inkling of Brenner's plans . 
`` It doesn't seem quite right , telling her a thing like that . 
Couldn't I just '' -- His voice trailed off into silence . 
Brenner continued to smile , but his eyes were cold . 
He turned and looked around at the lobby as though seeing things he hadn't before noticed . 
`` You know , Summers '' , he said thoughtfully . 
`` Eagle's Nest ought to have a fire company . 
If someone were to drop a match in here , this place would go up like a haystack '' . 
He started toward the stairway , then turned to add , `` Tell her to come to Adams's room , that Adams is in trouble . 
Tell her to hurry '' . 
`` Yes sir '' . 
His face pale , Summers headed for the street . 
Curt's visit to the livery stable had been merely a precaution in case anyone should be watching . 
He paused only long enough to ascertain that Jess's buckskin was still missing and that his own gray was all right , then climbed through a back window and dropped to the ground outside . 
The fact that Jess's horse had not been returned to its stall could indicate that Diane's information had been wrong , but Curt didn't interpret it this way . 
A man like Jess would want to have a ready means of escape in case it was needed . 
Probably his horse would be close to where he was hiding . 
From the back of the barn it was a simple matter to reach Black's house without using the street . 
Curt approached the place cautiously , and watched it several minutes from the protection of a grove of trees . 
There was a light in Black's front room , but drawn curtains prevented any view of the interior . 
Curt circled the house and located a barn out back . 
He could hear horses moving around inside , and nothing else . 
There was no lock on the door , only an iron hook which he unfastened . 
He opened the door and went in , pulling it shut behind him . 
Again he stood in the darkness listening , but there was only the scrape of a shod hoof on a plank floor . 
He moved ahead carefully , his left hand in front of him , and came to a wooden partition . 
Horse smell was very strong , and he could hear the crunch of grain being ground between strong jaws . 
He found a match in his pocket and lit it . 
There were two horses in the barn , a sway-backed dun and Jess Crouch's buckskin . 
Curt snuffed out the match . 
It was certain now that Jess was in the house , but also , presumably , was Stacey Black . 
Curt wanted to get Jess alone , without interference from anyone , even as spineless a person as the store owner . 
He studied the problem for a few seconds and thought of a means by which it might be solved . 
Reaching across the side of the stall , he slapped the buckskin on the rump . 
The startled animal let out a terrified squeal and thrashed around in the stall . 
As Curt had hoped , the house door banged open . 
He slapped the buckskin again and it kicked wildly , its hoofs rattling the side of the stall . 
Curt moved over beside the door and waited . 
Presently he heard footsteps crossing the yard , and Jess's smothered curses . 
The door swung open , and Jess said sourly , `` What the hell's the matter with you ? 
'' The horse continued to snort . 
Curt doubted that any animal belonging to Jess would find much reassurance in its owner's voice . 
Jess cursed again , and entered the barn . 
A match flared , and he reached above his head to light a lantern which hung from a wire loop . 
As he crossed to the side of the stall , Curt drew his gun and clicked back the hammer . 
`` Before you try anything '' , he said . 
`` Remember what happened to Gruller '' . 
Jess caught his breath in surprise . 
He started to reach for his gun , but apparently thought better of it . 
`` That's the stuff '' , Curt said . 
`` Just hold it that way '' . 
He reached out to pull the door shut and fasten it with a sliding bolt . 
`` You and I have a little talking to do , Jess . 
You won't be needing this '' . 
He moved up and lifted Jess's pistol out of its holster . 
`` Damn you , Adams '' -- Jess was beginning to recover from his initial shock . 
`` We ain't got nothing to talk about . 
If I don't come back in the house , Breed's going to '' -- `` Your trigger-happy brother isn't in the house . 
About now he's probably having supper . 
That long ride the four of you took must've given him a good appetite . 
Now turn around so I can see your face '' . 
Jess turned . 
There was raw fury in his eyes , and the veins of his neck were swollen . 
`` You're about as dumb as they come , Adams . 
I don't know what you're up to , but when Brenner '' -- `` You can forget about Brenner , too '' , Curt said . 
`` It's Ben Arbuckle we're going to talk about '' . 
`` Arbuckle '' ? 
Jess stiffened . 
`` I don't know nothin' about him '' . 
`` No ? 
I suppose you don't know anything about a piece of two-by-four , either ; ; one with blood all over it , Arbuckle's blood '' . 
Curt's fingers put a little more pressure on the trigger of his gun . 
`` So help me , Crouch , I'd like to kill you where you stand , but , before I do , I'm going to hear you admit killing him . 
Now start talking . 
Who told you to do it ? 
Was it Dutch Brenner '' ? 
Curt was holding Jess's gun in his left hand . 
He drew back his arm to slash the gunbarrel across Jess's face , but didn't finish the motion . 
Pistol-whipping an unarmed man might come easy to someone like Jess , but Curt couldn't bring himself to do it . 
Apparently sensing this , and realizing that it gave him an advantage , Jess became bold . 
`` Having all the guns makes you a big man , don't it , Adams ? 
If we was both armed , you wouldn't talk so tough '' . 
`` No '' ? 
Curt reached out and dropped Jess's pistol back into the holster . 
He retreated a step and holstered his own . 
`` All right , Crouch ; ; we're on even terms . 
Now draw '' ! 
Sweat bubbled out on Jess's swarthy face . 
The fingers of his right hand twisted into a claw , but he didn't reach for the gun . 
Curt , angry enough to be a little reckless , raised his hands shoulder high . 
`` Does this make it any easier , coward '' ? 
`` I ain't drawin' against you '' , Jess said thickly . 
`` I heard how you outdrew Chico . 
I ain't a gunslinger '' . 
`` No . 
You're the kind of bastard who sneaks up on a man from behind and hits him with a club . 
I just wanted to hear you say so '' . 
Jess stared at him without answering and let his hands fall to his sides . 
He had found Curt's weakness , or what to Jess was a weakness , and was smart enough to take advantage of it . 
Somewhere in the distance , a woman screamed . 
Curt was too involved in his own problems to pay much attention . 
He had to make Jess talk , and he had to do it before Stacey Black got curious and came to investigate . 
Once more he lifted Jess's gun from its holster , only this time he tossed it into the stall with the frightened buckskin . 
He dropped his own beside it . 
`` We'll do it another way , then '' , he said harshly . 
Jess's coarse features twisted in a surprised grin which was smashed out of shape by Curt's fist . 
With a roar of pain and fury Jess made his attack . 
Curt managed to duck beneath the man's flailing fist , and drove home a solid left to Jess's mid-section . 
It was like hitting a sack of salt . 
Pain shot up Curt's arm clear to the shoulder , but Jess seemed hardly aware that he had been hit . 
He slammed into the wall , bounced back , and caught Curt with a roundhouse right which sent him spinning . 
An inch lower and it would have knocked him out . 
As it was , his vision blurred and for a moment he was unable to move . 
When his eyes began to focus , he saw Jess charging at him with a pitchfork . 
Curt twisted to one side , and the tines of the fork bit into the floor . 
Jess wasted a few seconds trying to yank them loose . 
It gave Curt time to stagger to his feet . 
The tines broke off under Jess's twisting , and he swung the handle in an attempt to knock Curt's brains out . 
His aim was hurried ; ; so the pitchfork whistled over Curt's head . 
By now Curt was seeing clearly again . 
He stepped inside Jess's guard and landed two blows to the big man's belly , putting everything he had behind them . 
They made Jess double over . 
When his head came down , Curt grabbed him by the hair and catapulted him head first into the wall . 
The building shook , setting the lantern to swaying , and the buckskin to pitching again . 
Even Black's old crowbait began to snort , and from the house Black yelled , `` Jess ! 
What's going on out there '' ? 
Jess didn't seem too sure himself . 
He lurched drunkenly to his feet , lowered his head , and took one step away from the wall . 
Curt caught him flush on the nose with a blow which started at the floor . 
Jess had had enough . 
Blood gushed from his nose , and he backed off as rapidly as he could , stumbling over his own feet in his frantic haste to get away from Curt's fists . 
Curt was in almost as bad shape , but he wouldn't quit . 
He backed Jess into a corner , grabbed a handful of the man's shirtfront , and drew back his right fist . 
`` Tell me about Arbuckle ! 
You killed him , didn't you '' ? 
`` It was Brenner's idea '' , Jess mumbled , dabbing at his nose . 
`` He found out about you and Arbuckle talking . 
He wanted to show the town what happened to anyone who tried to start trouble '' . 
`` You mean anyone who stood up for his rights '' , Curt said . 
He let go of the shirt , and Jess slumped to the floor . 
Turning his back , Curt crossed to the stall , reached over to untie the buckskin's halter rope , and waved his hand in the animal's face . 
The buckskin bolted out of the stall . 
Curt moved in and picked up his gun . 
He shook loose straw out of the action , and placed the gun in his holster . 
Leaving Jess's where it lay , he left the stall . 
`` Get up , Crouch . 
We're going someplace '' . 
Jess painfully got to his feet as someone rattled the door . 
`` Who's in there '' ? 
Black called fearfully . 
Curt opened the door , grabbed Black by the shoulder , and pulled him into the barn . 
`` You're staying right here for a while . 
This dirty coward just admitted killing Arbuckle . 
I'm going to let him tell it to somebody else '' . 
He shoved Black toward the stall , and pointed his pistol at Jess . 
`` Get out of here . 
You're coming along peacefully , or I'll put a bullet in your leg '' . 
Jess stumbled through the door . 
Curt followed , reaching behind him to shut the door and hook it . 
Black would have little trouble getting out , but it might delay him a few minutes . 
`` Where're you takin' me '' ? 
Jess asked worriedly . 
`` We're going to Marshal Woods's house . 
Maybe if the marshal hears this himself , it'll make a difference . 
Somebody in this town must still have some backbone '' . 
Over his shoulder he could see Max's loose grin and the Burnsides' glowering faces . 
`` Honey '' , he whispered . 
`` Soon as we send them on their way and make camp , let's you and me go for a walk down by the Snake -- all by ourselves '' . 
`` Sally '' , admonished her mother , `` you've got all evening to visit with Dan . 
His wounds need dressing now '' . 
Mrs. Jackson's words recalled Dan to his lack of fitness for courting . 
What a spectacle he was , caked with dirt and sweat and blood , filthy as a pig and naked as an Indian , kissing the finest , the sweetest , the bravest , and absolutely the prettiest girl in this whole wonderful world . 
He released her reluctantly for her enthusiastic reunion with Old Hap . 
`` Got a lot to tend to , but I'll get back quick as I can '' , he assured her . 
Dan could hear Clayton Burnside and Eben Jackson summing up their final reckoning for rental on the oxen . 
Jackson was doing most of the talking . 
So long as Sally's pa was coming out best on the haggle , Dan didn't feel the need of putting in his two-bits' worth . 
Soon as the Burnsides moved on , he'd lead Rex down by the river ; ; there he could shave and scrub himself up for the evening . 
Damn it , he thought bitterly , picking up his shirt and staring at the fresh bullet hole in the sleeve . 
If I hadn't got Nate stopped when I did , my duds'd all be shot plumb to hell ! 
He stooped , picked up his ruined hat , and pursed his lips thoughtfully . 
From the way the wound in his head was itching , Dan knew that it would heal . 
But his only hat was something else again . 
`` Nate ! 
Nate '' ! 
He shouted . 
The Burnsides , now ready to roll , were purposefully deaf to his cry . 
`` Nate '' ! 
He bellowed to the retreating back directly in front of him . 
`` I ain't going to fight you no more '' . 
Nate turned his head , attempting to speak in a soothing voice . 
`` I know you ain't '' ! 
Dan affirmed , feeling ten feet tall . 
He moved in close , jerked the handsome , broad-brimmed beaver hat from Nate's head and clamped it on his own . 
`` Here's a present for you '' , he said , shoving his bullet-riddled hat down over Nate's purpling forehead . 
`` Me and you's trading hats so's you'll have something permanent to remember me by '' ! 
Sally left her choring to stand beside Dan . 
Slipping her hand in his , they silently watched the Burnsides make the bend in the road and disappear from sight . 
Much as they had to look forward to , they didn't begrudge a moment of the time they spent seeing them go . 
At first Matilda could not believe her own eyes . 
She had spent too many hours looking ahead , hoping and longing to catch even a glimpse of Dan and finding nothing but emptiness . 
And now she could see him , looking uncommon handsome , standing there beside Sally Jackson and her folks in front of their trail-worn wagon . 
Seeing them waiting there at the foot of Emigrant Rock was so overwhelming that , for a good minute after they rounded the bend and started down the grade leading toward them , Matilda could not speak at all . 
Then , with a glory that almost wiped out the deep , downward sags in her careworn face , Matilda leaned over the wheel and shouted to Hez , who was stumbling along in the heat and the dust on the opposite side of the wagon `` Pa ! 
Pa ! 
I can see Dan . 
And he's with the Jacksons '' ! 
`` What about Burnsides '' ? 
Hez asked , who still believed they'd have them to lick . 
`` They ain't even in sight '' ! 
She replied . 
By then Hez could see for himself , and so could the others . 
Soon they were all shouting greetings , exchanging smiles , and rejoicing to think that they were all back together again . 
But even a reunion as joyous as this one did not make a break in the routines of the day . 
Nor could they stop and find out about all that had happened until they made circle , tended the cattle , tethered the horses , gathered fuel , carried water , and started their cooking fires . 
Then , and only then , with the Jacksons and Dan as their true guests of honor , did the Harrows take time to catch up on the news . 
No sooner did they hear of Dan's injury than both Gran and Matilda went into immediate action . 
The wound in his scalp was examined , pronounced healing , and well doctored with simples , before they dished up the victuals . 
From then on , in keeping with the traditions they had followed since childhood , the whole group settled down to relish their food . 
Even Sally , in spite of her gaiety and obvious welcome , followed the old taboo of `` quitting the gab when wearing the nosebag '' . 
After their supper , the evening turned into a regular `` Hoe-Down '' . 
Only , they carefully substituted old country folk dances for the Virginia Reels and square dances that were so popular among more worldly trains in the great westward migration . 
But with Bill O'Connor on the fiddle , and Gran Harrow exuberantly shouting `` Glory Be '' and `` Hallelujah '' above their united chant of the lilting old ballads , they played their quaint folk games with all the fervor and abandon of a real celebration . 
`` Golly '' , Rod exclaimed to Harmony as he dutifully stood by her side among the ringed spectators , `` don't that fiddle make you wish the Bible didn't say us Baptists can't dance '' ? 
`` Nor Methodists , neither '' , she replied . 
`` Not that it matters to me , being this far along '' . 
Rod gave her a warm pat on the shoulder before he replied . 
`` Come spring , you'll be kicking up your heels and feeling coltish again too , gal '' . 
At these words of sympathy and understanding , Harmony said generously , `` I don't mind setting here along with Gran while you go out and join in the games '' . 
Rod shifted his eager eyes from the milling group out in the circle long enough to reply , `` I ain't much of a hand for Dare-Base and Farmer-in-the-Dell , but I'd sure like to get in on the handhold and wrestles '' . 
He looked down at his big hands and slowly flexed his long fingers . 
`` Don't reckon there's nobody out there , 'cept maybe Dan , who can outgrip me , Harmony '' . 
With Rod on his way and Matilda visiting with Mrs. Jackson while they searched out familiar names on the face of the cliff , Harmony settled on the edge of the grub box , to ease the pressure of her swollen body on her bone-weary legs , and worried about all that might have happened to Sally . 
And she was deeply thankful that she could see her now , out there in the midst of a gay , youthful circle , skipping and singing , `` Farmer in the dell , Farmer in the dell , Heigh-ho the dairy-oh , the farmer in the dell '' . 
At the sight of Sally's happy face and carefree expression , Harmony's dark , brooding eyes quickly brightened with unshed tears . 
She was glad , completely and unselfishly glad , to see that things were working out the right way for both Sally and Dan . 
And she really tried to go a step further and say she hoped they'd be just as right as they now were for her and for Rod . 
But she couldn't , not yet . 
Not with the memory of her folks and the lost Conestoga still holding her close . 
Out in the center of the circle the farmer , who was Dan , wasted no time when they came to the line , `` The farmer choose his wife '' . 
With a swift swoop of his big arms , he grabbed Sally out of the circle surrounding him , and then kissed her soundly before setting her down so she could stand by his side while they jointly chose the rest of their `` outfit '' . 
Soon the child , the dog , the cat and even the cheese , all joined them out there in the circle . 
By now Harmony could see that most of the adults in the train were winded and resting , or else siphoned off from the games by the challenging lure of the great cliff towering above them . 
No matter how many registry rocks they came to on this journey , each one exerted its own appeal . 
Even strange names seemed to make them feel closer to some kind of civilization when stumbled across out here in this wilderness . 
Already a few hardy folk from their own train were zealously chipping away at the register rocks , leaving their own records along with those made by the earlier trains . 
Soon she saw Rod and Hez moving over to join them . 
No sooner were they through and the guards posted , than the whole camp turned in for a night of sound sleep . 
For Matilda , it was the first she had known in many a night . 
Even the knowledge that she was losing another boy , as a mother always does when a marriage is made , did not prevent her from having the first carefree , dreamless sleep that she had known since they dropped down the canyon and into Bear Valley , way , way back there when they were crossing those other mountains . 
Next morning , they moved on again . 
`` My souls' a-gracious '' ! 
Gran Harrow exclaimed , watching their rippling muscles as Rod and Dan swung her up into the load . 
`` A body would swear I floated right up here on a cloud '' ! 
Rod and Dan released their holds on the arms of her hickory rocker and exchanged embarrassed grins . 
`` Shucks , Gran '' , they said almost in unison . 
`` That wasn't nothing at all '' ! 
Leaning forward in her chair , Gran nearsightedly scrutinized Dan's face . 
`` How's Sally like rubbin' agin that thar little ticklebrush ye're a-raising '' ? 
`` Quit ragging him , Gran '' , Rod protested . 
`` I ain't ragging him '' ! 
Gran peered again at the week-old blond mustache shadowing Dan's upper lip . 
`` But honest-to-Betsy , I've seed more hair than that on a piece o' bacon '' . 
The two tall brothers waited silently while their mother handed Gran her cold snack and water jug , placed the chamber pot beside her feet , and returned to her place at the front of the wagon with Alice . 
`` Rheumatics worse , Pa '' ? 
Dan asked Hez , who had limped back from his team to hold the notched-stick chair braces in place while his boys swung up the tailgate and tied it tight at the ends . 
`` My right leg's stiff as a board this morning '' , he replied . 
`` But the sun'll fry it out'n me onct we git to rolling '' . 
The three men stepped out to the side to wait for Captain Clemens' signal . 
Hez looked up at the high face of Emigrant Rock , official signboard for the Raft River turnoff , and gloated , `` Seems funny that them Burnsides never took time to leave their John-Henry up thar '' . 
`` Wonder what made them hurry so '' , Rod drawled , giving Dan a sly wink . 
Dan grinned , and changed the subject . 
`` From now on , Sally and me and her folks aim to give you our turn when it comes up and fall in behind you and Rod's outfit '' . 
`` Ain't no sense you eating our dust '' , Rod protested . 
`` Sally and her ma want to trade off on account of Harmony being so far along '' , Dan explained . 
`` Jackson recruited his critters , and him and me fixed up his wagon while we was waiting for you to catch up . 
He's got the tightest running gear in the train now . 
Besides , 'tain't no more'n right for me to follow with my black oxen , so's I can unhook and pull up fast if either of you get in a pinch '' . 
Captain Clemens' signal shot sent the men hurrying to their waiting teams . 
`` Reckon ye're right , Dan '' , Hez called back over his shoulder . 
`` I'll shore be needing ye both on the pull out o' the canyon '' . 
Rod looked apprehensively ahead at the narrowing , precipice-walled gorge . 
`` We'll double teams zigzagging up the mountain , Harmony '' , he spoke reassuringly , concerned by the pinched look around her mouth . 
`` Like enough we'll all be up on top by sundown '' . 
Out of the corner of his eye , he could see his father's wheels beginning to turn . 
Before Harmony had a chance to reply , Rod cracked his long whip over his thin oxen's backs . 
While no larger than Dutch Springs , this mining supply town had the appearance of being far busier and more prosperous . 
Men crowded the streets and freight rigs and teams were moving about . 
Although they were forced to maintain a sharper watch , this activity enabled them to ride in and rack their broncs without any particular attention being paid them . 
`` Gyp'll be holdin' forth in some bar if he's here at all '' , Cobb declared , glancing along the street as they stretched their legs . 
There were no less than six or seven saloons in Ganado , not counting the lower class dives , all vying for the trade of celebrating miners and teamsters . 
Pat only nodded . 
`` Take one side of the street , and I'll take the other '' , he proposed . 
`` If you spot Carmer give a yell before you move in '' . 
Cobb's assent was tight . 
`` You do the same . 
It's all I ask , Stevens '' . 
Separating , they took different sides of the main drag and systematically combed the bars . 
Russ visited two places without result and his blood pressure was down to zero . 
Suddenly it seemed to him insane that they might hope to locate Gyp Carmer so casually , even were he to prove the thief . 
He tramped out of the Miners Rest with his hopes plummeting , and headed doggedly for the Palace Saloon , the last place of any consequence on this side of the street . 
The Palace was an elaborate establishment , built practically on stilts in front , with long flights of wooden steps running up to the porch . 
Behind its ornate facade the notorious dive clung like a bird's nest to the rocky ribs of the canyonside . 
Russ ran up the steps quickly to the plank porch . 
The front windows of the place were long and narrow , reaching nearly to the floor and affording an unusually good view of the interior . 
Heading for the batwings , Cobb glanced perfunctorily through the nearest window , and suddenly dodged aside . 
Nerves tight as a bowstring , he paused to gather his wits . 
Against all expectation , Carmer was inside , clearly enjoying himself to the hilt and already so tipsy that it seemed unlikely he was bothering to note anything or anyone about him . 
Fierce anger surged through Russ . 
He fought down the impulse to rush in and collar the vicious puncher on the spot . 
Reaching the porch rail beyond view of the bar windows , he feverishly scanned the busy street below . 
Stevens was nowhere in sight . 
Muffling an exclamation , Russ sprang to the nearest steps and ran down . 
As luck had it , he had not gone twenty feet in the street before Pat appeared . 
`` What luck , Cobb '' ? 
He said swiftly . 
Russ pointed upward . 
`` He's there '' , he got out tersely , curbing his rising excitement . 
Hitching his cartridge belt around , Pat glanced upward briefly at the Palace and started that way with Cobb at his side . 
Climbing the steps steadily , they reached the top and headed for the door . 
Pat pushed through first . 
Forced behind him momentarily , Russ followed at once and halted two steps inside . 
His eyes widened . 
While five minutes ago the place had presented a scene of easy revelry , with Gyp Carmer a prominent figure , it was now as somnolent and dull as the day before payday . 
Carmer himself was nowhere to be seen . 
A man knocked the roulette ball about idly in its track , and another dozed at one of the card tables . 
Two men murmured with their heads together at the end of the bar , while the sleek-headed bartender absently polished a glass . 
Looking the setup over , Stevens started coolly for the rear of the place . 
`` Where yuh goin' '' ? 
It was the barkeep . 
Halting , Pat turned to survey him deliberately . 
He did not reply , going on toward the back . 
Less assured than the tall , wide-shouldered man in the lead , Cobb followed alertly , a hand on his gun butt . 
The bartender measured this situation with heavy eyes and decided he wanted no part of it . 
He said no more . 
A hall opened in back of the bar , running toward an ell . 
Pat moved into it . 
Small rooms , probably for cards , opened off on either side . 
All the doors were open at this hour except one , and it was toward this that Stevens made his way with Russ close at his shoulder . 
The door was locked . 
A single kick made it spring open , shuddering . 
Pat saw Gyp Carmer staggering forward , a half-filled bottle upraised as if to strike . 
Russ sprang through to bat it nimbly aside . 
With a bellow Carmer lunged at him . 
But he was more than half-drunk , and his faculties were dulled . 
Cobb unleashed a single powerful jab that sent Gyp reeling wildly and crashing down with a whining groan . 
He started to struggle up , heaving desperately . 
Russ gave him a brutal thrust that tumbled him over flat on his stomach . 
Kneeling , Cobb planted a sturdy knee in the small of his back , holding him pinned . 
`` Okay , Stevens . 
I've drawn his fangs '' , he snapped . 
`` Go through his pockets , will you ? 
If we have to we'll take him apart and see what he's made of '' ! 
Complying methodically , Pat pulled pocket after pocket inside out without finding a thing . 
Cobb watched this with hunted eyes , his desperate hope waning by the moment . 
Stevens was grunting over the last empty pocket when Russ abruptly rose and lunged toward Carmer's hat , which had tumbled half-a-dozen feet away when he first fell . 
Cobb got it . 
Straightening up , his eyes ablaze , he held out the battered Stetson . 
`` Look at this '' ! 
Inside the crown , stuffed behind the stained sweatband , could be seen thin , crumpled wads of currency . 
Carmer's ingenious cache for his loot had been found . 
`` By golly , Stevens ! 
You were right '' , Russ exclaimed , tearing the loose bills out of Carmer's hat . 
`` That is , if we can be sure this is Colcord's money '' -- Pat grunted . 
`` Where else would he get it ? 
Count what you've got there , Cobb . 
We can soon tell '' . 
Russ ran through the bills and named an amount it was highly unlikely any cowpuncher would come by honestly . 
Pat nodded . 
`` It's within a hundred of what Crip had '' , he declared . 
`` We know Penny spent some -- and Carmer must have dropped a few dollars getting that load on '' . 
Handing the money over , Russ wiped his hands on his pants-legs as if ridding himself of something unclean . 
His glance at Gyp Carmer was disdainful . 
`` Shall we get out of here '' ? 
Leaving the card room , they moved back through the Palace the way they had come . 
Glowering looks met them in the bar , but there was no attempt to halt them . 
Pausing in the outside door to glance behind him , Pat looked his unspoken warning and stepped out . 
He and Cobb clattered down the high steps to the street . 
Neither spoke till they reached their horses . 
Pat paused there , looking across at the young fellow . 
It'll be a pleasure for you to return this money to Colcord and tell him about it , Russ '' . 
He started to return it . 
To his faint surprise Russ held up his hand . 
`` Not me '' , he ruled decidedly . 
I've had enough . 
It was you that tracked it down anyway , Stevens '' , he pursued strictly . 
`` I'll shove along home '' . 
`` Whatever you say '' . 
Pat swung into the saddle , yet still he delayed , his brows puckered . 
`` You owe it to Penny to give her a chance to explain that she was defending you , really '' , he observed mildly . 
`` Old Crip wasn't '' , retorted Cobb tartly . 
`` He'll know when you tell him . 
But I want this to sink in awhile . 
Then maybe next time he won't be so quick on the trigger '' . 
`` Pat had never pretended to give advice in such affairs . 
`` You're the doctor '' , he returned with a smile . 
`` But I still think Penny's an awful nice girl , Russ '' -- `` You don't have to tell me '' , flashed Cobb . 
Giving the other a dark look , he hauled his bronc around and trotted down off the street . 
Pat let him go , following more leisurely . 
At the first restaurant he sensibly pulled up to go in for his dinner , and as a consequence did not see Cobb strike the open range at the mouth of the canyon and head straight across the swells for Antler . 
The truth was , the puncher was both bewildered and dismayed by his own mixed luck . 
`` Penny's always glad to see me over there '' , he mused bleakly . 
Yet had he not visited the girl at Saw Buck he would never have been involved in this latest tangle . 
Over and above that , however , was his growing suspicion of Chuck Stober's part in recent events . 
`` Gyp Carmer couldn't have known about Colcord's money unless he was told -- and who else would have told him '' ? 
He asked himself . 
`` It's the second time War Ax hands made a play for that money . 
How much of an accident could that be '' ? 
Nearing home , he jerked to attention at the distant crack of a gun . 
In town no one paid much attention to an occasional shot ; ; but on the range gunfire had a meaning . 
Hauling up , Russ listened carefully . 
Two minutes later it came again -- a double explosion , followed by a third , sounding more distant . 
As near as Cobb could determine the shots came from the direction of the Antler ranch house . 
He tightened up in a twinkling . 
So far as he knew , only his father could be there . 
What did it mean ? 
Clapping spurs to the bronc he set off at a sharp canter , with growing alarm . 
His first glimpse of the ranch house across the brushy swells told him nothing . 
Still a quarter-mile away , the fresh clap of guns only served to increase his speed . 
Setting a course straight for the house , he was covering ground fast when an angry bee buzzed past close to his face . 
When it was followed by a second , whining even closer , Cobb swerved sharply aside into a depression . 
He knew now what he was up against . 
Whoever was out there hiding in the brushy cover was besieging the Antler house and , having spotted his approach , was determined to drive him off before he could get into the fight . 
Cursing himself for having ridden out the last few days without a rifle in his saddle boot , Russ drew his Colt and examined it briefly . 
If he wondered whether the attackers would allow him to pull away unmolested , he had his answer a moment later . 
`` Over this way ! 
He ain't gone far '' ! 
A harsh cry floated to him across the brush . 
A carbine cracked more loudly , and a slug clipped fragments from the brush off at one side . 
The would-be assassin had his position figured pretty close . 
Dismounting , Russ looked about hastily . 
Toward the west this depression led toward a draw . 
Leading his pony , he hurried that way , not remounting till he was well below the level of the surrounding range . 
Swinging up then , and bending forward over the horn , he urged his mount down the meandering draw . 
He had not covered a hundred yards before a gun crashed from somewhere behind . 
He had been sighted , and his attacker pumping shot after shot . 
A shot or two went wild before Cobb felt something tug at his foot . 
A slug had torn half of his stirrup-guard away . 
A second twitched his shirtsleeve , and he felt a brief burn on his upper arm . 
Another snarled close overhead . 
`` Jumping Jerusalem ! 
Let's get out of here '' ! 
At the first shot Russ had hurled his mount to the left toward the side of the winding draw . 
The long minute before he reached effective cover seemed endless . 
Sweeping a look around , he saw that he was safe for the moment . 
He heard cries from behind him , but he could make out no words . 
He dashed madly for the next elbow turn in the draw , and made it . 
Recklessly hurling the bronc sidewise into an intersecting draw , he plunged forward with undiminished speed . 
Gradually the wash climbed upward , forcing him toward open range . 
Yet he must chance it . 
He clambered out of the dwindling wash , the loose dirt flying behind him , and flashed a look about . 
Early in November the clouds lifted enough to carry out the assigned missions . 
And Sweeney Squadron put its first marks on the combat record . 
Every plane that could fly was sent into the air . 
Cricket took eight ships and went south across the Straits and along the north coast of Mindanao to Cagayan . 
Anything the enemy flew or floated was his target . 
Fleischman with eight was to patrol the Leyte Gulf area , with his main task to get any kamikaze before they got to the ships . 
Greg himself took two flights , with Todman leading the second , to patrol and look for targets of opportunities around Ormoc on the east coast of Leyte . 
Each plane carried two five-hundred pound bombs . 
A weapons carrier took Greg , Todman , Belton , Banjo Ferguson , and Walters and the others the two miles from the bivouac area to the strip . 
It was a rough long ride through the mud and pot holes . 
No one had much to say . 
The sky glowered down at them . 
There was a feeling that this mission would be canceled like all the others and that this muddy wet dark world of combat would go on forever . 
The truck dropped them off at the various revetments spread through the jungle . 
Donovan snatched Greg's chute from him with a belligerent motion and almost ran to the plane with it . 
His face was dark as the sky above it as he stood on the wing and waited for his pilot . 
Greg climbed into the cockpit feeling as if he had never been in one before . 
But his hands and those of Donovan moved automatically adjusting and arranging in the check-out procedure . 
`` I've got her as neat as I can '' , Donovan said , as he dropped the straps of the Seton harness over Greg's shoulders . 
`` But this goddamn climate . 
It's for carabao not airplanes '' . 
`` We'll make out . 
Don't you worry , chief '' , Greg replied , wondering if he himself believed it . 
`` Yeah . 
See you '' , Donovan said as he jumped off the wing . 
The expression was his trade-mark , his open sesame to good luck , and his prayer that pilot and plane would always return . 
At the prearranged time , Greg started the engine and taxied out . 
From the time the chocks were pulled until the plane was out of sight , he knew Donovan would keep his back to the strip . 
He wondered where the superstition had originated that it was bad luck for a crew chief to watch his plane take off on a combat mission . 
Yet long before the scheduled time for return , Donovan would be watching for every speck in the sky . 
Greg rumbled down the rough metal taxi strip , and one by one the seven members of his flight fell in behind him . 
The dark brown bombs hanging under each wing looked large and powerful . 
The pilots' heads looked ridiculously small . 
The control tower gave him immediate take-off permission , and the clean roar of the engine that took him off the rough strip spoke well of the skill of Donovan . 
Greg's mission was the last to leave , and as he circled the ships off Tacloban he saw the clouds were dropping down again . 
To the west , the dark green hills of Leyte were lost in the clouds about halfway up their slopes . 
Underneath him the sea was a dark and muddied gray . 
Water splashed against his windshield as he led the flight in and out of showers . 
The metal strip they had taken off from was coal black against the green jungle around it . 
He possessed the fighter pilot's horror of bad weather and instrument flying , and he wondered , if the ceiling did drop , whether he and the other flights would be able to find their way back in this unfamiliar territory . 
He shivered in the warm cockpit . 
The overcast was solid above him . 
As far as he could see there was no hole to climb through it . 
They would have to go west through the narrow river valley that separated Leyte from Samar and hope that it didn't close in before they returned . 
Greg pushed the radio button on his throttle . 
`` Todman , let's try to go under this stuff . 
Stay in close and we'll go up the valley '' . 
`` Roger , Sweeney '' , Todman called back , and pulled his four in and slightly above Greg . 
Greg took the formation wide around three A-26 attack bombers that were headed north over the Gulf . 
He dropped down to five hundred feet , swinging a little north of the city of Tacloban , and punched into the opening that showed against the mountain . 
The valley was only a few hundred yards wide with just about room enough for a properly performed hundred-and-eighty-degree turn . 
It was only a fifteen-minute flight , but before it was through Greg felt himself developing a case of claustrophobia . 
The ceiling stayed solid above them at about eight hundred feet , and at times the sheer cliffs seemed about to close in . 
If the other pilots were worried , they did not show it . 
The formation remained perfect . 
When the sea was visible ahead of them , the relief was as great as if the sun had come out . 
He spread the flight out and led them across a point of land and then down the coast . 
Although they drew light ground fire they saw no signs of activity . 
Once Todman thought he had spotted a tank and went down to investigate while Greg covered him . 
`` Somebody beat us to it '' ! 
Todman said over the radio as he came back up in formation . 
Visibility continued to be limited , and Greg was never able to get above a thousand feet . 
It was frustrating . 
His earphones were constantly full of the sounds of enemy contacts made by other flights . 
He thought once that he identified the somewhat hysterical voice of Fleischman claiming a kill . 
But Greg's area remained as placid as a Florida dawn . 
Finally , as time began to run out , he headed into Ormoc and glide-bombed a group of houses that Intelligence had thought might contain Japanese supplies . 
The low clouds made bombing difficult . 
There was not enough room to make the usual vertical bomb run . 
The accuracy was deplorable . 
One of Greg's bombs hung up , and he was miles from the target before he could get rid of it . 
Only one of the flight scored a direct hit and the rest blew up jungle . 
With their load of bombs gone , the planes moved swiftly and easily . 
Greg went up tight against the ceiling and led them back to their pass to home . 
Mercifully , it was still open . 
Like a man making a deep dive , Greg took full breath and plunged back into the valley . 
He was about to make a gas check on his flight when Todman's voice broke in : `` Sweeneys ! 
Three bogies . 
Twelve o'clock level '' . 
Greg's eyes flicked up from his instrument panel . 
He saw them , specks against the gray , but closing fast . 
They were headed straight for each other on a collision course . 
Friend or enemy ? 
The same old question . 
And only a few seconds to answer it . 
`` Zeros '' ! 
Todman said excitedly , and hopefully . 
And then he thought Todman might be right . 
His mind flicked through the mental pictures he had from the hours of Aircraft Identification . 
He narrowed the shape down to two : either a Zero or a U. S. Navy type aircraft . 
If it were the enemy , tactically his position was correct . 
Japanese aircraft were strong on maneuverability , American on speed and firepower . 
His present maximum altitude , up against the overcast , gave him the opportunity to exploit his advantages . 
But it also made him conspicuous to the enemy , if it was the enemy , and he hadn't been spotted already . 
But the closing aircraft showed no sign of deviating from their original course . 
In seconds , Greg made his decision . 
He pushed the radio button . 
`` Sweeney Blue , hit the deck . 
Lots of throttle . 
Todman , you take the one on the left . 
I'll take the middle . 
Belton , the one on the right . 
If they're Japs . 
Let's make sure first '' . 
Greg had the stick forward and the throttle up before he heard the two `` Rogers '' . 
The planes , light with most of the gas burned out , responded beautifully . 
Greg's airspeed indicator was over 350 when he leveled off just above the trees . 
The opposing aircraft continued to come on . 
They appeared to be the enemy . 
Greg wished the Air Corps had continued to camouflage planes . 
There was , of course , no way for the other planes to get by them . 
It was a box . 
But they could turn and escape to the east . 
Greg pushed the radio button again . 
`` Todman , drop your second element back . 
If any of us miss , they can pick up the pieces . 
Now let's make sure they're Japs '' . 
Even as he said it , Greg knew they had found the enemy . 
The shapes were unmistakable and the Rising Suns were showing up , slightly brighter pinpoints in the gray gloom . 
Greg slapped his hand across the switches that turned on the guns and gun camera and gun sight . 
The circle with the dot in the center showed up yellow on the reflector glass in front of him . 
His hands shook . 
`` Arm your guns , Sweeneys '' . 
`` They're Japs . 
They're Japs '' , came a high-pitched voice . 
`` Greg to Sweeney Blue . 
One pass only . 
No turns . 
You'll bust your ass in this canyon . 
That's an order '' . 
He moved the flights over against one wall . 
It gave them all a chance to make a high-speed climbing turn attack and a break-away that would not take them into the overcast or force a tight-turn recovery . 
If the turn was too tight , a barrel roll would bring them out . 
A hell of an altitude for a barrel roll , but it could be done . 
Greg slammed his throttle to the fire wall and rammed up the RPM , and the engine responded as if it had been waiting . 
The clearly identifiable enemy continued on as if no one else were around . 
`` They haven't seen us '' , Greg yelled to himself over the engine noise . 
`` They haven't seen us '' . 
He hit the radio button . 
`` Now , Sweeneys , now . 
Let's take 'em home '' . 
He hauled back on the stick and felt his cheeks sag . 
Out of the corner of his eye , he watched his wingman move out a bit and shoot up with him . 
Perfect , he thought . 
With the rapid rate of closure , the approach from below , the side , and ahead , there would be only a moment when damage could be done . 
Just like shooting at a duck while performing a half-gainer from a diving board . 
He tightened his turn . 
His nose up . 
It was going to be dangerous . 
Eight aircraft in this small box . 
Please , dear God , make my pilots good , he prayed . 
He took a lead on the enemy , using a distance of five of the radii in his circular sight and then added another . 
The enemy did not veer . 
It did not seem possible that they hadn't been spotted . 
Blind fools . 
Now ! 
Greg's fingers closed on the stick trigger . 
The plane rumbled and slowed . 
Six red lines etched their way into the gray and vanished . 
As if drawn by a wire the enemy flew into them . 
Greg tightened his turn until the plane shuddered . 
Luck was with him . 
His burst held for a second on the engine section of the plane . 
The Jap's propeller flew off in pieces . 
A large piece of engine cowling vanished . 
It was all Greg had time to see . 
His maneuvering for the shot had placed him near the overcast , almost inverted and heading up into the clouds . 
His speed was dropping rapidly . 
If he spun out now , he would join his opponent on the ground . 
Wingman , stay clear , he prayed . 
He pushed stick and rudder and entered the overcast on his back . 
He fought the panic of vertigo . 
He had no idea which was up and which was down . 
He held the controls where they had been . 
Sweat popped out over him and he felt the slick between his palm and the stick grip . 
His air speed dropped until he thought he would spin out . 
Over the rattling of fenders , humming of tires and chattering of gears there was a charming melody of whispers and tiny giggles . 
Cool air moving slowly through the open or smashed-out side windows hinted of blooming roadside vegetation , and occasionally a faint fragrance of perfume swirled from the back seat . 
`` Moriarty '' , my driver suddenly exclaimed with something so definite , so final in his tone I once more repeated the absurdity , mustering all my latent powers of hypocrisy to sound convinced . 
We were coming to an intersection , turning right , chuffing to a stop . 
Forced to realize that this was the end of a very short line I scanned a road marker and discovered what the end of a slightly longer line would be for the old Mexican : Moriarty , New Mexico . 
`` Gracias . 
Adios '' , I said , exhausting my Spanish vocabulary on my host and exchanging one of a scarcely-tapped store of smiles with my host's daughters . 
I waved with discretion and moderation to the vague golden faces fading through rising dust and the distortions of the back window glass . 
Then I saw the father's head slightly turn ; ; gauche rainbow shapes replaced the poignant ovals of gold . 
Autos whizzed past . 
White-shirted and conservatively-cravated drivers stared conspicuously toward the eastern horizon and past my supplicating and accusing gaze . 
Suddenly a treble auto horn tootley-toot-tootled , and , thumbing hopefully , I saw emergent in windshield flash : red lips , streaming silk of blonde hair and -- ah , trembling confusion of hope , apprehension , despair -- the leering face of old Herry . 
`` Mor-ee-air-teeeee '' , he shrieked , his white teeth grossly counterpointing those of the glittering blonde . 
Over the rapidly-diminishing outline of a jump seat piled high with luggage Herry's black brushcut was just discernible , near , or enviably near that spot where -- hidden -- more delicately-textured , most beautifully tinted hair must still be streaming back in cool , oh cool wind sweetly perfumed with sagebrush and yucca flowers and engine fumes . 
Damn his luck . 
I would have foregone my romantic chances rather than leave a friend sweltering and dusty and -- Well , at least I wouldn't have shouted back a taunt . 
Still nursing anger I listlessly thumbed a car that was slowly approaching , its pre-war chrome nearly blinding me . 
It was stopping . 
Just as I straightened up with my duffel bag , I heard : `` Sahjunt Yoorick , meet Mrs. Major J. A. Roebuck '' . 
The voice was that of Johnson , tail gunner off another crew . 
Squeezing a look between Johnson's fat jowls and the car frame a handsome and still darkhaired lady inquired `` Y'all drahve '' ? 
I nodded . 
`` Onleh one thiihng '' , Mrs. Roebuck continued . 
`` Ahm goin nawth t'jawn mah husbun in Sante Fe , an y'all maht prefuh the suhthuhn rewt . 
But Corporal Johnson has alreadeh said it didn make no diffrunce t'hi-im '' . 
I said that it didn't make any difference to me either , as far as I knew . 
How far I knew will shortly become apparent . 
Let me pass over the trip to Sante Fe with something of the same speed which made Mrs. Roebuck `` wonduh if the wahtahm speed limit '' ( 35 m.p.h. ) `` is still in ee-faket '' . 
I let up on the accelerator , only to gradually reach again the 60 m.p.h. which would , I hoped , overhaul Herry and the blonde , and as there were cars whose drivers apparently had something more important to catch than had I , Mrs. Major Roebuck settled down to practicing on Corporal Johnson the kittenish wiles she would need when making her duty call on Colonel and Mrs. Somebody in Sante Fe . 
When Johnson ejaculated `` Howsabout my buying us all a nice cold Co-cola , Ma'am '' ? 
Mrs. Roebuck smilingly declined and began suddenly to go on about her son , who was `` onleh a little younguh than you bawhs '' . 
Johnson never would have believed she had a son that age . 
Mrs. Roebuck thought Johnson was a `` sweet bawh t'lah lahk thet '' , but her Herman was getting to be a man , there was no getting around it . 
`` Just befoh he left foh his academeh we wuh hevin dack-rihs on the vuhranduh , Major Roebuck an Ah , an Huhmun says ' May Ah hev one too ' ? 
Just as p'lite an -- an cohnfidunt , an Ah says ' Uh coahse you cain't ' , but he says ' Whah nawt , you ah hevin one ' ? 
An Ah coudn ansuh him an so Ah said ' Aw right , Ah gay-ess , an his fathuh didn uttuh one wohd an aftuh Huhmun was gone , the majuh laughed an tole me thet he an the bawh had been hevin an occasional drink t'gethuh f'ovuh a yeah , onleh an occasional one , but just the same it was behahn mah back , an Ah doan think thet's nahce at all , d'you '' ? 
`` No , I don't '' , Johnson said . 
`` I'm a good Baptist , and drinking '' Mrs. Roebuck very kindly let me drive through Sante Fe to a road which would , she said , lead us to Taos and then Raton and `` eventshahleh '' out of New Mexico . 
How lightly her `` eventshah-leh '' passed into the crannies where I was storing dialect material for some vaguely dreamed opus , and how the word would echo . 
And re-echo . 
Hardly had Mrs. Roebuck driven off when a rusty pick-up truck , father or grandfather of Senor `` Moriarty's '' Ford sedan , came screeching to a dust-swirling stop , and a brown face appeared , its nose threatened by shards of what had once been the side window . 
`` Get in , buddies . 
Get in '' . 
The straight , black hair flopped in a vigorous nod , the slender nose plunged toward glass teeth and drew safely back . 
Johnson unwired the right hand door , whose window was , like the left one , merely loosely-taped fragments of glass , and Johnson wadded himself into a narrow seat made still more narrow by three cases of beer . 
`` In back , buddy '' , the driver said to me . 
Quickly but carefully lowering my duffel bag over the low side-rack , I stepped on the running board ; ; it flopped down , sprang back up and gouged my shin . 
The truck was hurtling forward . 
I seized the rack and made a western-style flying-mount just in time , one of my knees mercifully landing on my duffel bag -- and merely wrecking my camera , I was to discover later -- my other knee landing on the slivery truck floor boards and -- but this is no medical report . 
I was again in motion and at a speed which belied the truck's similarity to Senor X's Ford turtle . 
Maybe I would beat old Herry to Siberia after all . 
Whatever satisfaction that might offer . 
Something pulled my leg . 
I drew back , drawing back my foot for a kick . 
But it was only Johnson reaching around the wire chicken fencing , which half covered the truck cab's glassless rear window . 
The way his red rubber lips were stretched across his pearly little teeth I thought he was only having a little joke , but , no , he wanted me to bend down from the roar of wind so he could roar something into my ear . 
`` Wanna beer '' ? 
`` Hell , yes '' , I roared back between dusty lips . 
Did I want a beer ? 
Did an anteater want ants ? 
`` Bueno , amigo . 
Gracias '' , I hollered , my first long swallow filling me with confidence and immediately doubling the size of my Spanish vocabulary . 
At once my ears were drowned by a flow of what I took to be Spanish , but -- the driver's white teeth flashing at me , the road wildly veering beyond his glistening hair , beyond his gesticulating bottle -- it could have been the purest Oxford English I was half hearing ; ; I wouldn't have known the difference . 
Johnson was trying to grab the wheel , though the swerve of the truck was throwing him away from it . 
White teeth suddenly vanishing , the driver slammed the side of his bottle against Johnson's ear . 
We were off the road , gleaming barbed wire pulling taut . 
I ducked just as the first strand broke somewhere down the line and came whipping over the sideboards . 
We were in a field , in a tight , screeching turn . 
Prairie dogs were popping up and popping down . 
When I fell on my back , I saw a vulture hovering . 
Just as I got to my knees , there was again the sound of the fence stretching , and I had time only to start taking my kneeling posture seriously . 
This time no wire came whipping into the truck . 
We were back on the road . 
I regained my squatting position behind the truck cab's rear window . 
Johnson's left hand was pressed against the side of his head , red cheeks whitening beneath his fingers . 
`` Tee-wah '' , the driver cackled , his black eyes glittering behind dull silver chicken fencing . 
`` That was Tee-wah I was talking . 
You thought I was a Mexican , didn't you , buddy '' ? 
I nodded . 
`` Hell , that's all right , buddy '' , the Indian ( I now guessed ) said . 
`` Drink your beer '' . 
Miraculously , the bottle was still in my hand , foam still geysering over my ( luckily ) waterproof watch . 
No sooner had I started drinking than the driver started zigzagging the truck . 
The beer foamed furiously . 
I drank furiously . 
A long time . 
Emptied the bottle . 
Teeth again flashing back at me , the driver released a deluge of Spanish in which `` amigo '' appeared every so often like an island in the stormy waves of surrounding sound . 
I bobbed my head each time it appeared . 
Suddenly the Spanish became an English in which only one word emerged with clarity and precision , `` son of a bitch '' , sometimes hyphenated by vicious jabs of a beer bottle into Johnson's quivering ribs . 
A big car was approaching , its chrome teeth grinning . 
Beyond it the gray road stretched a long , long way . 
The car was just about to us , its driver's fat , solemn face intent on the road ahead , on business , on a family in Sante Fe -- on anything but an old pick-up truck in which two human beings desperately needed rescue . 
I tossed the bottle . 
High , so it would only bounce harmlessly but loudly off the car's steel roof . 
Too high . 
On unoccupied roadway the bottle shattered into a small amber flash . 
`` Aye-yah-ah-ah '' ! 
The Indian was again raising his bottle , but to my astonished relief -- probably only a fraction of Johnson's -- the bottle this time went to the Indian's lips . 
Another car was coming , a tiny , dark shape on a far hill . 
I started looking on the splintery truck bed for a piece of board , a dirt clod -- anything I could throw and with better aim than I had thrown the beer bottle . 
We were slowing . 
In the ditch sand was white and soft-looking , only an occasional pebble discernible , faintly gleaming . 
But Johnson couldn't quickly unwire the truck door , and if I escaped , he might suffer . 
The car was approaching fast . 
On the truck bed there was nothing smaller than a piece of rusty machinery ; ; with more time I could have loosened a small burr or cotter pin -- Suddenly and not a second too soon I thought of the coins in my pocket . 
There was no time to pick out a penny ; ; I got a coin between my thumb and forefinger , leaned my elbows in a very natural and casual manner on top of the truck cab and flipped my little missile . 
There was a blur just under my focus of vision , a crash ; ; the car's far windshield panel turned into a silver web with a dark hole in the center . 
I heard the screech of brakes behind me , an insane burst of laughter beneath me . 
Looking back I saw a gray-haired man getting out of his halted car and trying to read our license number . 
`` S-s-sahjunt '' . 
Johnson's fat hand , another bottle were protruding from the truck cab , and that self-proclaimed Baptist teetotaler , had a bottle at his own lips . 
Two cars came over a crest , their chrome and glass flashing . 
The Indian's arm whipped sidewise -- there was a flash of amber and froth , the crash of the bottle shattering against the side of the first car . 
Brakes shrieked behind us . 
I saw Johnson's bottle snatched from his hand , saw it go in a swirl of foam just behind the second car . 
This time there was no sound of brakes but the shrieking of women . 
I looked back at pale ovals framed in the elongated oval of the car's rear window . 
`` Drink , you son of a bitch '' ! 
I quickly turned around and began to drink . 
But the Indian was jabbing another bottle toward Johnson . 
I guided her to the divan , turned off the TV , faced her . 
She sat quietly , staring at me from the wide eyes . 
And what eyes they were . 
Big and dark , a melting , golden brown . 
Eyes like hot honey , eyes that sizzled . 
Plus flawless skin , smooth brow and cheeks , lips that looked as if you could get a shock from them . 
It was a disturbingly familiar face , too , but I couldn't remember where we had met . 
I said , `` Do we know each other , Miss '' ? 
`` No , I remembered reading about you in the papers and that you lived here , and when it happened all I could think of was '' -- This time she stopped the rush of words herself . 
`` I'm sorry . 
Shall I go on '' ? 
She smiled . 
It was her first smile . 
But worth waiting for . 
`` Sure '' . 
I said . 
`` But one word at a time , O.K. '' ? 
She was still hugging the stained coat around her , so I said , `` Relax , let me take your things . 
Would you like a drink , or coffee '' ? 
`` No , thanks '' . 
She stood up , pulled the coat from her shoulders and started to slide it off , then let out a high-pitched scream and I let out a low-pitched , wobbling sound like a muffler blowing out . 
She was wearing nothing beneath the coat . 
She jerked the coat back on and squeezed it around her again , but not soon enough . 
There had been a good second or two during which my muffler had been blowing out , and now I was certain I'd seen her somewhere before . 
`` I forgot '' ! 
She yelped . 
`` Oh , do forgive me . 
I'm sorry '' ! 
`` I forgive '' -- `` That's what started all the trouble in the first place . 
Oh , dear , I'm all unstrung '' . 
`` You and me both , dear . 
Haven't we haven't I seen you . 
I mean , surely we've '' -- `` You may have seen me on TV '' , she said . 
`` I've done several filmed commercials for '' -- Then it hit me . 
`` Zing '' ! 
I cried . 
`` Why , yes . 
And you recognized me '' ? 
`` Yes , indeed . 
In fact , I was watching you on that little seventeen-inch screen when you rang my bell . 
Man , you rang -- it was in color , too , Miss , and Miss ? 
What's your name , anyway ? 
Ah , you were splendid '' . 
I sat by her on the divan . 
`` Splendid . 
In a waterfall and all that '' . 
`` That's the last one we did . 
That was a fun one '' . 
`` I'll bet . 
It was fun for me , all right . 
I don't mean to pry , but do they hide the swimsuit with the bubbles ? 
I mean : Is advertising honest ? 
`` It depends on who does it . 
I never wear anything at all . 
It wouldn't -- wouldn't seem fair , somehow '' . 
`` I couldn't agree with you more '' . 
`` I really do have something important to tell you , Mr. Scott . 
About the murder '' . 
`` Murder ? 
Oh , yeah '' , I said . 
`` Tell me about the murder '' . 
She told me . 
Zing was the creation of two men , Louis Thor and Bill Blake , partners in zing ! 
, Inc. . 
They'd peddled the soap virtually alone , and without much success , until about a year ago , when -- with the addition of `` SX-21 '' to their secret formula and the inauguration of a high-powered advertising campaign -- sales had soared practically into orbit . 
Their product had been endorsed by Good Housekeeping , the A.M.A. , and the Veterinary Journal , among other repositories of higher wisdom , and before much longer if you didn't have a cake of their soap in the john , even your best friends would think you didn't bathe . 
My lovely caller -- Joyce Holland was her name -- had previously done three filmed commercials for zing , and this evening , the fourth , a super production , had been filmed at the home of Louis Thor . 
The water in Thor's big swimming pool had been covered with a blanket of thick , foamy soapsuds -- fashioned , of course , from zing -- Joyce had dived from the board into the pool , then swirled and cavorted in her luxurious `` bath '' while cameras rolled . 
The finished -- and drastically cut -- product would begin with a hazy longshot of Joyce entering the suds , then bursting above the pool's surface clad in layers of lavender lather , and I had a hunch this item was going to sell tons and tons of soap ; ; even to clean men and boys . 
Joyce went on , `` When we'd finished , Lou -- Mr. Thor -- asked me to stay a little longer . 
He wanted a few stills for magazine ads , he said . 
Everybody left and I stayed in the pool , then Lou came back alone and leaped into the pool too . 
And he didn't have any clothes on '' . 
`` He didn't '' ! 
`` Yes , he didn't . 
Did , I mean '' . 
She paused . 
`` Did leap into the pool , and didn't have anything on . 
Anyway , it was evident what he had in mind '' . 
`` You got away , didn't you '' ? 
`` Yes . 
He caught up with me once and grabbed me , but I was all covered with zing -- it's very slippery , you know '' . 
`` I didn't know . 
I wouldn't have the stuff in the house . 
But I'm pleased to hear '' -- `` So I just scooted out of his clutches . 
I swam like mad , got out of the pool , grabbed my robe , and ran to the car . 
The keys were still in it , and I was miles away before I remembered that my clothes and purse and everything were still in the little cabana where I'd changed '' . 
She'd driven around for a while , Joyce said , then , thinking Louis Thor would have calmed down by that time , she'd gone back to his home on Bryn Mawr Drive , parked in front , and walked toward the pool . 
While several yards from it , still concealed by the shrubbery , she'd seen two men on her left at the pool's edge . 
She went on : `` A man was holding onto Lou , holding him up . 
Maybe Lou was only unconscious , but right then I thought he must be dead . 
The man shoved him into the water , then ran past the cabana . 
There's a walk there that goes out to Quebec Drive . 
I was so scared well , I just ran to my car and came here '' . 
`` You know who the other man was '' ? 
`` No , I never did see his face . 
I didn't get a good look at him at all , his back was to me , and I was so scared It was just somebody in a man's suit . 
But I'm sure the other one was Lou '' . 
What Joyce wanted me to do was go to Thor's house and `` do whatever detectives do '' , and get her clothes -- and handbag containing her identification . 
She realized I'd have to notify the police , but fervently hoped I could avoid mentioning her name . 
Her impact in the zing commercials had led to her being considered for an excellent part in an upcoming TV series , Underwater Western Eye , a documentary-type show to be sponsored by Oatnut Grits . 
But if Joyce got involved in murder or salacious scandal , the role would probably go to the sponsor's wife , Mrs. Oatnut Grits . 
Or at least not to Joyce . 
`` And I so want the part '' , she said . 
`` The commercials have just been for money , there hasn't been any real incentive for me to do them , but in Underwater Western Eye I'd have a chance to act . 
I could show what I can do '' . 
As far as I was concerned , she had already and had dandily shown what she could do . 
But I promised Joyce I would mention her name , if at all , only as a last resort . 
Seeming much relieved , she smiled one of those worth-waiting-for smiles , and I smiled all the way into the bedroom . 
There I got my Colt Special and shoulder harness , slipped my coat on , and went back into the front room . 
Joyce squirmed a little on the divan . 
`` I'm starting to itch '' , she said . 
`` Itch '' ? 
`` Yes , I'm still all covered with that soap . 
I was loaded with suds when I ran away , and I haven't had a chance to wash it off . 
Mmmm , it sure itches '' . 
`` You might as well wait here while I'm gone , so you can use my shower if you'd like '' . 
`` Oh , I'd love to '' . 
I showed her the shower and tub , and she said , smiling , `` If you really don't mind , I think I'll get clean in the shower , then soak for a few minutes in your tub . 
That always relaxes me . 
Doesn't it you '' ? 
`` Only when I do it '' . 
I shook my head . 
One of my virtues or vices is a sort of three-dimensional imagination complete with sound effects and glorious living color . 
`` Soak as long as you want , Joyce . 
It'll probably be at least an hour or two before I can check back with you . 
So you'll have everything all to yourself , doggone '' I looked at my watch . 
Ten after nine . 
Time to go , I supposed . 
`` Well , goodbye '' , I said . 
`` Goodbye . 
You'd better hurry '' . 
`` Oh , you can count on that '' . 
She smiled slightly . 
Softly . 
Warmly . 
`` Don't hurry too much . 
I'll be soaking for at least half an hour '' . 
That was all she said . 
But suddenly those hot-honey eyes seemed to have everything but swarms of bees in them . 
However , when there's a job to be done , I'm a monstrosity of grim determination , I like to think . 
I spun about and clattered through the front room to the door . 
As I went out , I could hear water pouring in the shower . 
Hot water . 
She wouldn't be taking a cold shower . 
Hell , she couldn't . 
Bryn Mawr Drive is only two or three miles from the Spartan , and it took me less than five minutes to get there . 
But the scene was not the quiet , calm scene I'd expected . 
Four cars were parked at the curb , and two of them were police radio cars . 
Lights blazed in the big house and surrounding grounds . 
I followed a shrubbery-lined gravel path alongside the house to the pool . 
Two uniformed officers , a couple of plain-clothesmen I knew , and two other men stood on a gray cement area next to the pool on my left . 
At the pool's far end was the little cabana Joyce had mentioned , and on the water's surface floated scattered lavender patches of limp-looking lather . 
A few yards beyond the group of men , a man's nude body lay face down on a patch of thick green dichondra . 
Lieutenant Rawlins , one of the plain-clothesmen , spotted me and said , `` Hi , Shell '' , and walked toward me . 
`` How'd you hear about this one '' ? 
I grinned , but ignored the question . 
He didn't push it ; ; Rawlins worked out of Central Homicide and we'd been friends for years . 
He filled me in . 
A call to the police had been placed from here a couple of minutes after nine P.M. , and the first police car had arrived two or three minutes after that -- 10 minutes ago now . 
Present at the scene -- in addition to the dead man , who was indeed Louis Thor -- had been Thor's partner Bill Blake , and Antony Rose , an advertising agency executive who handled the zing account . 
Neither of them , I understood , had been present at the filming session earlier . 
`` What were they doing here '' ? 
I asked Rawlins . 
`` They were supposed to meet Thor at nine PM for a conference concerning the ad campaign for their soap , a new angle based on this SX-21 stuff '' . 
`` Yeah , I've heard more about SX-21 than space exploration lately . 
What is the gunk '' ? 
`` How would I know ? 
It's a secret . 
That was the new advertising angle -- something about a Lloyd's of London policy to insure the secrecy of the secret ingredient . 
Actually , only two men know what the formula is , Blake and '' -- He stopped and looked at Thor's body . 
I said , `` O.K. , so now only Blake knows . 
How's it strike you , foul or fair '' ? 
`` Can't say yet . 
Deputy coroner says it looks like he sucked in a big pile of those thick suds and strangled on 'em . 
The PM might show he drowned instead , but that's what the once-over-lightly gives us . 
Accident , murder , suicide -- take your pick '' . 
`` I'll pick murder . 
Anything else '' ? 
`` According to Rose , he arrived here a couple minutes before nine and spotted Thor in the water , got a hooked pole from the pool-equipment locker and started hauling him out . 
Too many people think that the primary purpose of a higher education is to help you make a living ; ; this is not so , for education offers all kinds of dividends , including how to pull the wool over a husband's eyes while you are having an affair with his wife . 
If it were not for an old professor who made me read the classics I would have been stymied on what to do , and now I understand why they are classics ; ; those who wrote them knew people and what made people tick . 
I worked for my Uncle ( an Uncle by marriage so you will not think this has a mild undercurrent of incest ) who ran one of those antique shops in New Orleans' Vieux Carre , the old French Quarter . 
The arrangement I had with him was to work four hours a day . 
The rest of the time I devoted to painting or to those other activities a young and healthy man just out of college finds interesting . 
I had a one-room studio which overlooked an ancient courtyard filled with flowers and plants , blooming everlastingly in the southern sun . 
I had come to New Orleans two years earlier after graduating college , partly because I loved the city and partly because there was quite a noted art colony there . 
When my Uncle offered me a part-time job which would take care of my normal expenses and give me time to paint I accepted . 
The arrangement turned out to be excellent . 
I loved the city and I particularly loved the gaiety and spirit of Mardi Gras . 
I had seen two of them and we would soon be in another city-wide , joyous celebration with romance in the air ; ; and , when you took a walk you never knew what adventure or pair of sparkling eyes were waiting around the next corner . 
The very faces of the people bore this expectation of fun and pleasure . 
It was as if they could hardly wait to get into their costumes , cover their faces with masks and go adventuring . 
My Uncle and I were not too close socially because of the difference in our ages . 
Sometimes I wondered vaguely what he did about women for my Aunt , by blood , had died some years ago , but neither of us said anything . 
One Monday morning I saw him approach the store with a woman and introduce me to her as my new Aunt . 
They were married over the week-end , though he was easily sixty and she could not have been even thirty . 
She looked more like twenty-five or six . 
It was really a May and December combination . 
My new Aunt was perhaps three or four years older than I and it had been a long time since I had seen as gorgeous a woman who oozed sex . 
There was something about the contour of her face , her smile that was like New Orleans sunshine , the way she held her head , the way she walked -- there was scarcely anything she did which did not fascinate me . 
Her legs were the full , sexy kind , full bodied like a rare wine and just as tantalizing to the appetite ; ; the calf was magnificent , the ankle perfect . 
You must forgive me if I seem to dwell too much on her physical aspects but I am an artist , accustomed to studying the physical body . 
The true artist is like one of those scientists who , from a single bone can reconstruct an animal's entire body . 
The artist looks at an ankle , a calf , a bosom and , in his mind's eye , the clothes drop away and he sees her as she really is . 
And that is the way I first saw her when my Uncle brought her into his antique store . 
That she impressed me instantly was obvious ; ; I was aware that when our eyes met we both quickly averted them . 
I thought I saw a faint surge of color rise to her neck and quickly suffuse her cheeks . 
True , she was my Aunt , married to an Uncle related to me only by marriage , but why she had married a man twice her age , and more , perhaps , I did not know or much care . 
She was standing with her back to the glass door . 
Her form was silhouetted and with the strong light I could see the outlines of her body , a body that an artist or anyone else would have admired . 
As it is in so many affairs of the heart , a man and a woman meet and something clicks . 
Something clicked in this instance , but I treated her circumspectly and I felt that she knew it , for we both kept our distance . 
When she appeared at the store to help out for a few hours even my looking at her was surreptitious lest my Uncle notice it . 
And then I became aware that she , too , glanced at me surreptitiously . 
I felt that her eyes were undressing me as if she were a painter and I a nude model . 
I dismissed these feelings as wishful thinking but I could not get it out of my head that we had a strong physical attraction for one another and we both feared to dwell on it because of our relationship . 
When our eyes met the air was filled with an unuttered message of `` Me , too '' . 
You have probably experienced this . 
It is nothing you can put your fingers on but the air suddenly fills with a high charge of electricity . 
Why she married him I do not know . 
I myself was fond of him but what a young woman half his age saw in him was a mystery to me . 
He already had that slow pace that comes over the elderly , while she herself had all the signs of one who appreciates the joys of living . 
Perhaps , with my Uncle , she found a measure of economic security that she needed ; ; or maybe she liked men old enough to be her father ; ; some women with father fixations do . 
For several weeks we eyed one another almost like sparring partners , and then one day Uncle was slightly indisposed and stayed home ; ; his bride opened the store . 
I was waiting in front of it when she showed up and told me of my Uncle's indisposition . 
Even as she was telling me about it I became aware of a give-away flush that suffused her neck and moved upwards to her cheeks , and subconsciously I realized that when she entered the store she did not switch on the lights . 
The cavernous depth , cluttered with antiques , echoed to her hard heels as she walked directly to the office in the rear and took the seat at his desk . 
She placed her palms , fingers outspread , on the desk in an odd gesture as if to say , `` Now , what next '' ? 
I was aware of a humid look in her eyes that told me the time was opportune . 
There was little likelihood of any customers walking in at that hour . 
I was standing beside her , watching the outspread palms and wondering about the old horsehair sofa against the wall on which he sometimes napped . 
I bent and kissed the still pink neck and suddenly she jumped up , and her two arms encircled me in a bear-like crush . 
Her mouth , which had been so much in my thoughts , was warm and moist and tender . 
I heard her murmur , `` We'd better lock the door '' . 
It did not take me long to slip the bolt securely and return to the rear and its couch . 
When we opened the door again for business and switched on the lights she said : `` He will not always be indisposed '' . 
`` I know . 
I was thinking about that . 
How will we work it out '' ? 
`` I don't know '' , she said . 
`` You're the man . 
You figure it out . 
I've noticed the way you've been looking at me ever since we met '' . 
`` I guess we both felt it '' . 
I said . 
`` I guess so '' , she said . 
`` But now what '' ? 
Even as I said it I realized that an education can be invaluable . 
`` I know what we can do '' , I said . 
`` Tell him I made a pass at you '' . 
She raised a protesting hand with a startled air . 
`` What are you trying to do ? 
Get thrown out ? 
If I even hint at it do you think it will matter that you are his nephew -- and not even a blood nephew '' ? 
`` I don't want to be thrown out and I don't think I will . 
I think I have a way so we can carry on without his suspecting us '' . 
`` By telling him you are making passes at me '' ? 
She said incredulously . 
`` When I was in college '' , I grinned , `` I remember a poem I had to read in my lit class . 
I don't even remember who wrote it but it was one of those 15th or 16th century poets . 
In those days poems often told a story in verse and those boys had some corkers to tell ; ; and now I think we can use the knowledge they passed on to us . 
Tomorrow Mardi Gras opens officially . 
A lot of people will roam the streets in costumes and masks , and having a ball . 
There will be romance and flirtation . 
If you tell him I made a pass at you he might think you misunderstood something I said or did , so instead of just telling him I made a pass , say I tried to date you and that you agreed so you could prove to him what a louse I really am . 
We made a rendezvous tomorrow evening at nine on some street near Lake Ponchartrain . 
And to prove what you tell him about me you suggest that he keep the date instead . 
You are both the same size . 
He could use your clothes for a costume and a heavy veil for a mask . 
When I show up he will know you are a good wife to have told him about it '' . 
`` But you '' -- she began . 
`` Don't worry about me . 
It will turn out all right '' . 
`` I don't understand '' , she insisted . 
`` Are you trying to cut your throat '' ? 
`` No '' , I chuckled , `` I'm just beginning to collect dividends on my investment in education '' . 
As we expected , on the following day my Uncle was completely recovered and opened the store as usual at 10 in the morning . 
I felt that he looked at me coldly and appraisingly and seemed to be uncertain what his attitude towards me should be , but he did not say one word which might indicate that he had been told of advances to his wife . 
I quit work at my usual hour as if this day was no different from other days . 
I heard subsequently that my Uncle and Aunt had dinner in a nearby restaurant in the French Quarter after which he went home to get into his costume to keep the date . 
Shortly before nine I drove my jalopy to the street facing the Lake and parked the car in shadows far enough away from the rendezvous corner but near enough to keep the corner in clear view . 
A few minutes later I saw my Uncle's car drive up and a woman's figure emerge and walk to the corner . 
I must say the figure was well made up . 
If it were not that I knew who it was I could have mistaken it for my Aunt so well did her clothes fit him . 
In one hand he gripped firmly a parasol though there had been no indication of rain . 
I suspected why he brought it along . 
In the half darkness I approached cautiously , making sure he did not see me . 
He was looking out on the dark waters of the Lake when I came upon him and without wasting words I smacked him hard across the face . 
`` You cheap bitch '' ! 
I exclaimed . 
`` You cheap , no good , two-timing bitch ! 
You get a good , loyal husband -- smack ! 
-- and you fall for a pass by his own nephew ! 
You should -- smack ! 
-- be ashamed of yourself . 
He had better write a postcard to Walter . 
He opened the myth book again and there ( along the margin next to Robert Graves' imaginative interpretation of the creation of the Dactyls from Rhea's fingertips ) were the names of four Munich bars and Meredith Wilder's address . 
The bars were marked as Walter had marked them in a small black book kept in a nearly secret drawer . 
The code , which had probably something to do with sex or some other interest , Nicolas was determined to find out and put to use . 
A card to Walter would get him an introduction to this Meredith , and that might be good for something . 
Nicolas called on his muse , a line came back : `` Squaresville , man , and all the palazzos are crummy Palasts '' . 
That ought to draw a laugh , Nicolas reasoned , as he stored the line away on the wax tape that was his mind . 
And indeed , his postcard did draw from Walter a letter recommending his friend , the poet Nicolas Manas , to his friend Meredith Wilder . 
Five days later , on receiving it , Meredith sat drumming his dactyls on his writing table . 
Dammit ! 
He inwardly cried . 
His hand was large and square and heavily tanned . 
The voice crying in him was the voice of guilt . 
His four weeks in Italy had turned into nearer three months . 
He had returned to the pension a week ago . 
Now , he was just in the late poems of Holderlin and therefore had most of the nineteenth century before him -- plus next semester's class preparation . 
He was determined to spend an industrious summer . 
Well , maybe Manas wouldn't call . 
Meredith's fingers slowed and stopped over a line before him : Sie lacheln , die Schwarzen Hexen . 
The menace of Manas gradually faded as Meredith asked himself should he translate it , ' How the dark fates laughed ' ? 
Or , more rhythmically , ' The swarthy witches are laughing ' ? 
And he missed the point that the swarthy witches might be laughing at him for hoping to escape Nicolas Manas . 
But Nicolas , too , was being interrupted , that morning . 
Not by the 11:00 sun which had spread a warmth around his spot of grass in the English Gardens and sent him off to sleep ; ; but by a blond girl in a sweater and skirt who stood a few yards off and tenderly regarded him . 
Should she wake him ? 
She didn't have the heart . 
Her heart , her maternal feeling , in fact her being was too busy expressing itself , as quietly thrilled by this sight of her Nicolas curled asleep under a blanket , in a park like a scene from Poussin . 
She was just not able to break the spell . 
( Would she have been able to had she known that the blanket belonged to a young ballet dancer Nicolas had found his first night in one of Walter's marked bars ? 
Nicolas : `` Look , Nicolas doesn't go to bed with boys -- no sex , see ? 
So if all these beers was to get me in bed , man , you just spent a lot of money '' . 
Ballet dancer : Protests , tears , and `` take what you want , Nicolas , I am a dancer , you are a poet , it is all beautiful '' . 
To this meek conjugation Nicolas had replied , `` O.K. I can use this blanket . 
And when you get off this job tonight , well , you can gimme something to eat '' . 
And , as a matter of fact , Nicolas had slept in the park only part of one night , when he discovered that Munich's early mornings even in summer are laden with dew . 
He had always known how to find a bed , and on his own terms . 
He used the blanket for late morning naps when hosts of the night had gone off to jobs and proved reluctant to leave him in their small rooms with their few possessions . 
Mary Jane Lerner knew none of this . 
) Her Nicolas lay curled in the sun like a fawn , black hair falling over his eyes . 
She was telling herself that this might just be her reward at the end of a long meaningful search for truth . 
This was surely a reunion in art , it was all that poetry promised . 
That long night with Nicolas and marijuana in Venice had opened her eyes . 
His advice , his voice saying his poems , the fact that he had not so much as touched her -- on the contrary , he had put his head back and she had stroked his hair -- this was all new . 
Her eyes had opened , she had caught a glimpse of a new faith . 
The next day he was gone . 
Mary Jane might not be the most intelligent woman , but she was one of the most determined . 
Even so , it took her several days to force Walter to tell her Nicolas's whereabouts . 
Packing a small suitcase , informing her husband whom she found in Harry's Bar that she was taking a train to Germany to get away for a while , patting his arm , refusing a drink , getting on the train -- all this had only taken her two hours . 
She had arrived this morning and come straight to the English Gardens . 
`` Dear girl '' , Walter had finally said , `` he writes me that he is sleeping in the English Gardens '' . 
`` How like him '' ! 
Mary Jane had smilingly said . 
`` His address '' , Walter added , `` is that great foundling home , the American Express . 
And I will greatly appreciate it if you will not tell your husband . 
'' For the last half hour Mary Jane had criss-crossed half the length of the Gardens and , at last , come upon her knight . 
His presence there , asleep in the grass , confirmed all that Mary Jane believed it was in his power to teach her : freedom from the tedium of needs such as hotels , the meaning of nature , how to live , simply , with the angels . 
She set down her suitcase . 
Should she wake him ? 
No . 
Smiling , she sat down on the suitcase and waited and watched . 
The sun grew hotter as it approached the midday . 
Nicolas was dreaming he had his head pressed against the dashboard of a speeding car . 
He began sweating . 
In his dream he cried , `` Slow down , for Chrissake '' ! 
He half woke and rolled over with his face in the cooler grass . 
His nose was tickled . 
He sneezed . 
He blew his nose expertly between his fingers . 
He spit . 
He half sat up and scratched at the hair on his forehead and then , more vigorously , between his legs . 
He belched , he stretched . 
Mary Jane got up , quietly , and walked away . 
Twenty minutes later she was at the desk of the Grafin's pension , her tears dried , signing a hotel form and asking for a bath . 
Mary Jane belonged to a world acquainted with small attractive hotels and pensions in all the major and minor cities . 
She had retreated to this world . 
The Grafin , who was charmed by her , told her , `` Your sister who was here two years ago has quite dark hair . 
Families are very interesting . 
Nevertheless , there is no bath . 
But a young American has a bath next to his room and I shall ask him if you might use it this once . 
And then we shall see . 
'' ( The Grafin was partial to the word shall . 
) Meredith was irritated when the Grafin knocked at his door and told him , `` She is a great beauty ! 
Shall we allow her not to have a bath ? 
Actually , she is a sad beauty , I believe . 
You shall see her at dinner '' . 
Rather erotically he listened to the bath water running ; ; when it stopped he began busily typing , sitting up in a virtuous way . 
Before dinner , he shaved for the second time that day . 
A thing he did not like doing , generally . 
Singing into the mirror and his interested eyes , he was pleased to note , when he stripped for his own bath , that he still had the best part of his Italian sun tan . 
He flexed his muscles for several minutes , got into the tub , and then grew self-conscious of splashing as he washed . 
In the small gallery used as the guests' dining room , Meredith sat down at his place and , as always , began teasing the young waitress . 
He was asking had it been she who left the love note in his sheets ( she also served as maid ) when he saw the Grafin followed by a stately blond girl approaching his table . 
It would be literary license calculated to glamorize life to say that he , oh , dropped his napkin , so startled was he by Mary Jane's beauty . 
Yet he did drop his badinage with the ordinary country girl as much in deference to the Grafin as acknowledgement that here , indeed , was something special . 
Mary Jane had made very little effort . 
Above a dark green skirt she wore a pale green cashmere sweater with , as he soon perceived , no brassiere beneath . 
Her white blond hair was clean and brushed long straight down to her shoulders . 
Perhaps her eyes were larger and more of a summer blue for all they had seen and wept that day . 
She had touched her face , truly a noble and pure face , only with a lip salve which made her lips glisten but no redder than usual . 
The result was grace and modesty . 
As she was rather tired this evening , her simple `` Thank you for the use of your bath '' -- when she sat down opposite him -- spoken in a low voice , came across with coolnesses of intelligence and control . 
Meredith began falling in love . 
Soup : `` Only this morning '' ; ; veal cutlets : `` Oh , I couldn't possibly eat all this '' ! 
; ; Wine : `` Then you were typing poems this afternoon '' ? 
; ; Fruit compote : `` If you think I would understand it '' ; ; a smile . 
`` What a beautiful room . 
Like as if it were built of books '' . 
Having opened the windows onto the terrace , lit the fire , translated the motto , Meredith grinned and took down a little triplet of books bound together in old calfskin . 
Opening these he brought out a schnapps bottle and small gold thimble-sized glasses hidden inside it . 
`` I think the maids tipple in the afternoon '' . 
`` Those sweet girls ? 
Oh you're joking . 
It tastes a little like poppyseed . 
What's its name ? 
Steinhager '' She whispered Steinhager to herself , several times , memorizing it . 
`` Would you first read the poem aloud to me and then let me read it to myself '' ? 
Meredith's voice was always deep , with rough bass notes in it ; ; in reading , on platforms , even in the large auditorium of the Y.M.H.A. , Poetry Center nights , his voice was intimate , thoughtful , and a trifle shy . 
His new poem , a love poem , told of a young husband leading his wife upstairs to the bedroom when the lights in the house have failed . 
The husband points the steps out with his flashlight : `` Its white stare filling her pale eyes To the blind brim with appetite , Bleaching her hands that grazed my thighs And sent us from the table in surprise To let the dishes soak all night , '' ( Mary Jane asked herself if Meredith was blushing at this line , or was it the fire ? 
) But he read on . 
In the bedroom before the husband and wife find their way to the bed , the lights go on : `` In dull domestic radiance I watch her staring face , still blind , Start wincing in obedience To dirty waters , counters , pots and pans , Waiting below stairs , in her mind '' . 
Mary Jane took the page from him and began reading it , moving her lips with the words . 
`` Oh , it's that myth , about Orpheus and What is her name ? 
I can never pronounce it '' . 
She repeated `` Eurydice '' . 
The third time rather urgently . 
But with her hand poem again . 
She raised her face and nodded , `` It's sweet , and very sad '' . 
They discussed the way people never tell each other the things on their minds . 
They finished the small bottle of Steinhager . 
She confessed she was unhappy , he asked was it her husband ? 
She began to explain , `` There was this poet , in Italy '' He interrupted , `` Please don't judge all poets '' . 
They smiled . 
At her door , two or three hours later , Mary Jane whispered , `` Everyone is asleep '' . 
Kissing her he whispered , several times , `` Eurydice '' . 
The third time rather urgently . 
But with her hand softly on his cheek for a last moment , she closed the door and he went back down the hall and into his bed excited , expectant , and finally faintly grinning with the feel of her hand against his mouth . 
They were west of the Sabine , but only God knew where . 
For three days , their stolid oxen had plodded up a blazing valley as flat and featureless as a dead sea . 
Molten glare singed their eyelids an angry crimson ; ; suffocating air sapped their strength and strained their nerves to snapping ; ; dust choked their throats and lay like acid in their lungs . 
And the valley stretched endlessly out ahead , scorched and baked and writhing in its heat , until it vanished into the throbbing wall of fiery orange brown haze . 
Ben Prime extended his high-stepped stride until he could lay his goad across the noses of the oxen . 
`` Hoa-whup '' ! 
He commanded from his raw throat , and felt the pain of movement in his cracked , black burned lips . 
He removed his hat to let the trapped sweat cut rivulets through the dust film upon his gaunt face . 
He spat . 
The dust-thick saliva came from his mouth like balled cotton . 
He moved back to the wheel and stood there blowing , grasping the top of a spoke to still the trembling of his played-out limbs . 
The burning air dried his sweat-soaked clothes in salt-edged patches . 
He cleared his throat and wet his lips . 
As cheerfully as possible , he said , `` Well , I guess we could all do with a little drink '' . 
He unlashed the dipper and drew water from a barrel . 
They could no longer afford the luxury of the canvas sweat bag that cooled it by evaporation . 
The water was warm and stale and had a brackish taste . 
But it was water . 
Thank the Lord , they still had water ! 
He cleansed his mouth with a small quantity . 
He took a long but carefully controlled draught . 
He replenished the dipper and handed it to his young wife riding the hurricane deck . 
She took it grudgingly , her dark eyes baleful as they met his . 
She drank and pushed back her gingham bonnet to wet a kerchief and wipe her face . 
She set the dipper on the edge of the deck , leaving it for him to stretch after it while she looked on scornfully . 
`` What happens when there's no more water '' ? 
She asked smolderingly . 
She was like charcoal , he thought -- dark , opaque , explosive . 
Her thick hair was the color and texture of charcoal . 
Her temper sparked like charcoal when it first lights up . 
And all the time , she had the heat of hatred in her , like charcoal that is burning on its under side , but not visibly . 
A ripple ran through the muscles of his jaws , but he kept control upon his voice . 
`` There must be some water under there '' . 
He tilted his homely face toward the dry bed of the river . 
`` We can get it if we dig '' , he said patiently . 
`` And add fever to our troubles '' ? 
She scoffed . 
`` Or do you want to see if I can stand fever , too '' ? 
`` We can boil it '' , he said . 
Her chin sharpened . 
`` We're lost and burning up already '' , she bit out tensely . 
`` The tires are rattling on the wheels now . 
They'll roll off in another day . 
There was no valley like this on your map . 
You don't even know where we're headed '' . 
`` Hettie '' , he said as gently as he could , `` we're still headed west . 
Somewhere , we'll hit a trail '' . 
`` Somewhere ! 
'' She repeated . 
`` Maybe in time to make a cross and dig our graves '' . 
His wide mouth compressed . 
In a way , he couldn't blame her . 
He had picked out this pathless trail , instead of the common one , in a moment of romantic fancy , to give them privacy on their honeymoon . 
It had been a mistake , but anything would have been a mistake , as it turned out . 
It wasn't the roughness and crudity and discomfort of the trip that had frightened her . 
She had hated the whole idea before they started . 
Actually , she had hated him before she ever saw him . 
It had been five days too late before he learned that she'd gone through the wedding ceremony in a semitrance of laudanum , administered by her mother . 
The bitterness of their wedding night still ripped within him like an open wound . 
She had jumped away from his shy touch like a cat confronted by a sidewinder . 
He had left her inviolate , thinking familiarity would gentle her in time . 
But each mile westward , she had hated him the deeper . 
He stared at the dipper , turning it over and over in his wide , calloused hands . 
`` I suppose '' , he muttered , `` I can sell the outfit for enough to send you home to your folks , once we find a settlement '' . 
`` Don't try to be noble '' ! 
Her laugh was hard . 
`` They wouldn't have sold me in the first place if there'd been food enough to go around '' . 
He winced . 
`` Hettie , they didn't sell you '' , he said miserably . 
`` They knew I was a good sharecrop farmer back in Carolina , but out West was a chance to build a real farm of our own . 
They thought it would be a chance for you to make a life out where nobody will be thought any better than the next except for just what's inside of them . 
Without money or property , what would you have had at Baton Rouge '' ? 
`` I might have starved , but at least I wouldn't be fried to a crisp and soaked with dirt '' ! 
He darkened under his heavy burn . 
His blue eyes sought the shimmering sea of haze ahead . 
To his puzzlement , there suddenly was no haze . 
The valley lay clear , and open to the eye , right up to the sharp-limbed line of gaunt , scoured hills that formed the horizon twenty miles ahead . 
Then he noticed the clouds racing upon them -- heavy , ominous , leaden clouds that formed even as they sliced over the crests of the surrounding hills . 
He had never seen clouds like them before , but he had the primitive feel of danger that gripped a man before a hurricane in Carolina . 
He hollered hoarsely , `` Hang on '' ! 
And goaded the oxen as he yelled . 
He wanted to turn them , putting the wagon against the storm . 
Too late , he realized that in turning , he had wheeled them onto a patch of sandy ground , instead of atop a grade or ridge . 
He swung up over the wheel . 
`` You had better get inside '' , he warned her . 
But she sat on in stubborn silence . 
The clouds bulged downward and burst suddenly into a great black funnel . 
Frozen , they stared at it whirling down the valley , gouging and spitting out boulders and chunks of earth like a starving hound dog cracking marrowbones . 
The six-ton Conestoga began to whip and shake . 
Their world turned black . 
It was filled with dust and wind and sound and violence . 
The heavens opened , pelting them with hail the size of walnuts . 
And then came the water -- not rain , but solid sheets that sluiced down like water slopping from a bucket . 
Walls of water rushed down the slopes and filled the hollows like the crests of flash floods . 
Through the splash of the rising waters , they could hear the roar of the river as it raged through its canyon , gnashing big chunks out of the banks . 
The jetting , frothing surface of the river reached the level of the runoff . 
The dangerous current upon the prairie ceased , but the water stood and kept on rising . 
They cringed under sodden covers , listening to the waves slop against the bottom . 
The cloudburst cut off abruptly . 
They were engulfed by the weird silence , broken only by the low , angry murmur of the river . 
Then the darkness thinned , and there was light again , and then bright sunlight . 
Beaten with fear and sound and wet and chill , they crawled to the hurricane deck and looked out haggardly at a world of water that reached clear to the surrounding hills . 
The water level was higher than their hubs . 
Only the heavy bones of the oxen kept them anchored . 
There was no real sign of the river now , just a roiling , oily ribbon of liquid movement through muddy waters that reached everywhere . 
Clumps of brush rode down the ribbon . 
Now and then , the glistening side of a half-swamped object showed as it swept past . 
The girl crawled out into the renewing warmth of the sunshine , hugging her shoulders and still trembling . 
Her face was pale but set and her dark eyes smoldered with blame for Ben . 
Out of compulsion to say something cheery , Ben Prime blurted , `` Well , we were lucky to be on soft ground when the first floodheads hit . 
At least , the wheels dug in . 
The soaking will put life back in the wagon , too '' . 
His wife didn't give a sign she'd heard . 
She was watching a tree ride wildly down that roiling current . 
Somebody was riding the tree . 
It raced closer and they could see a woman with white hair , sitting astride an upright branch . 
She did not call out . 
But as the tree passed , she lifted an arm in gesture of better luck and farewell . 
They watched the tree until it twisted sharply on a bend . 
It speared up into the air , then sinking back , the up-jutting branch turned slowly . 
The pale blob of the woman disappeared . 
`` There's the one who's lucky '' ! 
The girl murmured harshly . 
Ben's eyes strained with the bitter hurt , his homely face slashed with gray and crimson . 
Then he took off his wet boots and dropped down into the water to talk with the beasts , needing their comfort more than they needed his . 
It was nearly sundown and he went to the back of the wagon , half-swimming his way , for he was not a tall man . 
He let down the tailgate and was knocked over by the sluice of water . 
He sputtered back to his feet and scrambled madly to pull his bags of seed grain forward . 
They were already swollen to bursting . 
Of all their worldly belongings , next to the oxen and his gun , the seed grain had been the most treasured . 
It was spoiled now for seed , and it would sour and mold in three days if they failed to find a place and fuel to dry it . 
The oxen might as well enjoy it . 
He examined the water marks on the iron tires when the animals were finished . 
The waters lay muddy but placid , without a ripple of movement against the wheels ; ; there was not a match-width of damp mark to show they were receding . 
He doubted if a man could wade as far as the desolate , dry hills that rimmed the valley . 
A terrible , numbing sense of futility swept over him . 
He gripped the wheel hard to fight the despondency of defeat . 
Then he noticed that the dry wood of the wheels had swollen . 
The spokes were tight again , the iron tires gripped onto the wheels as if of one piece . 
Hope surged within him . 
He swung toward the front to give the news to Hettie , then stopped , barred from her by the vehemence of her blame and hate . 
Still , he felt better . 
A tight wagon meant so much . 
He got a small fire started and put on bacon and coffee . 
He poured the water off the sourdough and off the flour , salvaging the chunky , watery messes for biscuits of a sort . 
Their jams and jellies had not suffered . 
He found a jar of preserved tomatoes and one of eggs that they had meant to save . 
Now he broke them open , hoping a good meal might lessen this depression crushing Hettie . 
His long nose wiggled at the smells of frizzling bacon and heating java , but the fire was low , and he wanted to waste no time . 
He furled the slashed sides of the canvas tarpaulins , leaving the ribs and wagon open . 
He looked thoughtfully at his wife's trunk , holding her meager treasures . 
He said hesitantly , `` Hettie , I don't figure your things got wet too much . 
That's a good trunk . 
If you want to get them aired '' She said without turning her head , `` After that rain beating in atop the dust , there isn't a thing that won't be streaked '' . 
He drew a long breath and opened the trunk and hung out her clothes and spoilables upon the wagon ribs . 
Sulphur , oil , and copra make the kind of tinder any firebug dreams of . 
I suppose a Lascar sailor had sneaked a cigarette in the hold and touched off the blaze . 
Now , roaring up in great oily clouds of smoke and flames , the fierce heat quickly drove us to the stern where we huddled like suffocating sheep , not knowing what to do . 
The lifeboats were stuck fast . 
We couldn't budge them . 
I heard a cry from a stoker as a pillar of flame leaped from a hatch and tongued the man's bare back . 
He sprinted to the rail and leaped overboard into the shark-infested waters . 
One especially bad detonation shook Lifeboat No. 3 which trembled violently in the davits . 
Brassnose yelled : `` Come on , Sommers , Max step on it , we got a chance now . 
Heave on those ropes ; ; the boat's come unstuck '' . 
We pulled and swore and yanked and wept , scraping our hands until they bled profusely . 
The Bonaventure was quivering and lurching like an old spavined mare . 
Her stern was down and a sharp list helped us to cut loose the lifeboat which dropped heavily into the water . 
Brassnose , Max and I leaped into the sea and swam to the boat . 
`` Let's get away fast '' , said Brassnose , shaking water from his mop of bleached hair . 
`` That tub is going to explode all at once '' . 
Then the Bonaventure seemed to disintegrate with a roar of live steam , geysers of sparks and flames , and a dense cloud of black-and-orange smoke . 
Dimly , we heard the voices of men in mortal agony but we couldn't go back into that inferno . 
Already our leaky lifeboat was filled with five inches of water . 
`` Sommers , you bale while we row '' , Brassnose commanded . 
As best as I could determine , we were some 700 miles west of New Guinea , in the Bismark Archipelago . 
Three days previously , we had steamed past barren Rennell Island in the distance . 
Now we peered anxiously for any speck of land in the Pacific , for this interminable bailing would have to stop soon . 
There were gigantic blisters and rope burns on our hands ; ; our muscles were hot wires of pain . 
Brassnose was strangely silent . 
The big man with the whitened hair murmured something : his words sounded as if they were in the Manu tongue , which I recognized , having studied the dialect in my Anthropology 6 , class at the University of Chicago . 
He then said something which struck a chord in my memory . 
`` God help us if we're near the island of Eromonga . 
We'd be in real trouble then . 
I'd rather keep bailing -- or sink '' . 
I was puzzled by the remark , then I recalled the voice of mild Professor Howard Griggs three years ago in a university lecture on primitive societies . 
He had been speaking of this archipelago : `` Even when the islands were under German mandate before World War 1 , , Europeans gave Eromonga a wide berth . 
The place is inhabited by several hundred warlike women who are anachronisms of the Twentieth Century -- stone age amazons who live in an all-female , matriarchal society which is self-sufficient '' . 
I remembered , too , the jesting voice of a classmate , Bobby Pauson : `` But how do they reproduce , Dr. Griggs ? 
I'm sure that males have something to do with that process '' ! 
There had been classroom guffaws which quickly subsided as Professor Griggs said dryly : `` I see your point , Pauson . 
Of course , males play a role there , but believe me when I say you wouldn't enjoy yourself one bit on Eromonga . 
Indeed , you wouldn't live long , for the females either drive the men they've seized from neighboring islands back to their boats after exploiting them for amatory purposes , or they destroy them by revolting but ingenious methods . 
In fact , one important aspect of their very religion is the annihilation of men '' . 
`` I think I know what you mean , Brassnose '' , I said . 
`` I know something about Eromonga . 
Let's hope we come to a safer place '' . 
But we didn't . 
Three hours later , while we were bailing desperately , a dot of land came into view . 
Foster Lukuklu Frayne made a sign over his heart with his two linked thumbs : I recognized it as an ancient Manu gesture intended to propitiate the Devil . 
A half-hour passed ; ; we had drifted closer . 
In a voice so frightened as to seem not his own , the big bo'sun's mate quavered : `` Tchalo ! 
It is Eromonga -- look hard , you can see with your naked eye the wooden scaffolding on the cliff '' . 
I squinted at the looming shoreline . 
There was a wooden tower or derrick there , something like a ski jump ; ; it was perhaps 80 feet high and had been artfully constructed of logs . 
A fine example of engineering in a primitive society . 
`` What is the scaffolding for , Brassnose '' ? 
He made a sound of despair deep in his throat . 
It was embarrassing to see strapping , blonde Brassnose comport himself like a child who talks about bogeymen . 
`` Aaa-ee ! 
It is their tultul , the ' jumping platform ' of death . 
It is the last of the three tests of manhood which the women impose , to discover if a male is worthy of survival there . 
Often , I heard my uncles and cousins speak of it when I was a small boy growing up in Rabaul . 
They had never seen a tultul but they had heard about it from their fathers '' . 
Our lifeboat was filling rapidly and despite what I had heard of the inhabitants of Eromonga , I was glad to see a long and graceful outrigger manned by three bronzed girls glide out of a lagoon into the open sea and toward our craft . 
I expected Brassnose -- as a man with a strain of Melanesian in his blood -- to speak to them . 
But he had turned a sickly green and appeared tongue-tied or panicked . 
So , I mustered my few words of the Manu dialect and said , `` We greet you in peace . 
In ngandlu . 
My friends and I come from a ship which was destroyed by fire . 
We are thirsty and hungry ; ; our sore and burned hands and arms need attention '' . 
The girl in the prow of the outrigger turned a smile like a beacon on me . 
I noted that her full breasts were bare and that she wore a garland of red pandanus fruit in her blue-black hair . 
She said , `` My name is Songau and these girls are Ponkob and Piwen . 
You are welcome to Eromonga . 
My people await you on the shore . 
You shall have food , water and rest '' . 
Thirty minutes later , the outrigger grated on sand and other girls , waiting on shore , rushed forward to pull it up on the beach and make it fast with vine ropes to a large boulder . 
I saw a dozen or so other outriggers moored there . 
I looked . 
All my rosy visions of rest and even pleasure on this island vanished at the sight . 
There was a mound of bleached human bones and skulls at the base of the big wooden derrick . 
Some had been there for years ; ; others still had whitened shreds of decayed flesh sticking to them . 
There was one object which sickened yet fascinated me . 
This was also a corpse -- a male , judging from the coral arm bands , the tribal scars still discernible on the maggoty face , the painted bone of the warrior caste which still pierced the septum of the rotting nose . 
The body may have been two or three weeks' dead . 
I looked with revulsion at the legs . 
They were shattered . 
Many small bones protruded crazily from the shreds of flesh . 
The man must have leaped to his death from the topmost rung of the tultul . 
As if divining my thoughts , the girl Songau smiled warmly and said in the casual tone an American woman might use in describing her rose garden : `` This is our tultul , a jumping platform , aku . 
Later , you shall know it better . 
Is it not well-made ? 
Our old one blew down in a storm at the time of the pokeneu festival fifteen moons ago . 
It took thirty of our women almost six moons to build this one , which is higher and stronger than the old one . 
We are very proud of it '' . 
`` You have every right to be '' , I replied gravely in the Manu dialect , but my attention was fixed on Brassnose , the biggest and strongest of us . 
He looked as if he was going to keel over . 
I felt a queasiness in my own stomach but it wouldn't do to show these girls that we were afraid . 
Not so soon , anyway . 
I clapped the big man with the bleached hair on his shoulder and said heartily , hoping it would make an impression on the women : `` This one is the maku Frayne . 
He speaks your language too , for he is the grandson of a chieftain on Taui who made much magic and was strong and cunning . 
The maku Frayne has inherited this strength from his grandfather '' . 
This was the worst thing I could have said . 
Brassnose turned a stricken face toward me and said brokenly , `` Sommers , you meddling Yank , you're a fool ! 
They despise males who brag of their strength ; ; they destroy such men with their damned tests . 
You've ruined me , blast you '' ! 
At first , I thought he was out of his head , talking wildly like this . 
But a glance at Songau and the other women confirmed what Brassnose had blurted out . 
The women's faces had hardened after my statement . 
At a nod from Songau , four lithe and muscular girls darted to Frayne's side and seized him by the arms . 
The man was an ox and he put up a creditable struggle ; ; but four Eromonga women are more than a match for the strongest male that ever lived . 
Besides , terror had sapped some of Frayne's vitality and will . 
My last impression as they led him off to a stockade was of his pale face . 
In the Manu tongue , `` eromonga '' means manhood -- a quality which the women derisively toasted in weekly feasts at which great quantities of a brew like kava were imbibed . 
In the hut to which I was assigned -- Max had his own quarters -- my food was brought to me by a wrinkled crone with bare drooping breasts who seemed to enjoy conversing with me in rudimentary phrases . 
Her name was L'Turu and she told me many things . 
For an anthropologist , loquacious old L'Turu was a mine of information . 
Though I had a great dread of the island and felt I would never leave it alive , I eagerly wrote down everything she told me about its women . 
( Her account was later confirmed by the Scobee-Frazier Expedition from the University of Manitoba in 1951 . 
) From L'Turu , I heard that until about 1850 the people of this island -- which was about the size of Guam or smaller -- had been of both sexes , and that the normal family life of Melanesian tribes was observed here with minor variations . 
But in the middle of the last century an island woman named `` Karipo '' seized a spear in the heat of an inter-tribal battle and rallied the women after their men had fled . 
Miraculously , Karipo and her women had succeeded in driving a hundred invaders from the isle of Pamasu back to their war canoes , after considerable loss of life on both sides . 
Karipo was something of a politician as well as a militarist . 
She quickly exploited the exalted position she now occupied , by harassing the disorganized males and even putting many of them to death . 
Within a decade or less , few men were left and a feminist society had sprung up . 
`` Karipo was great goddess , told our mothers that men were not necessary except to father children '' , the crone told me . 
`` All men went away from here . 
Those who stayed had to pass tests . 
Few passed '' . 
She cackled with mirth , showing the stumps of betel-stained teeth . 
`` Karipo's women then named this place ' Eromonga ' -- manhood -- for just the strongest men could stay here . 
Come , I show you '' . 
The old woman arose stiffly and led me to a clearing where a small hut stood . 
In the shade of a palm tree in front of the squalid dwelling I saw four figures in a semi-circle on the ground . 
`` I guess he spent the morning getting himself all organized , then headed for home . 
Maybe to beat up on his squaw '' . 
Benson looked up and saw Ramey's long head tilt forward to rub his chin on the stiff edge of the overall bib . 
Ramey reached out with the tire iron and dislodged a chunk of mud that was caked on the spare tire rack . 
`` I'd like to know just which it is that those guys don't understand , the liquor or automobiles '' . 
Somehow the thought of a simple man bewildered by things no one had ever really helped him understand moved the driver . 
For a moment his hatred toward drunken or careless drivers softened . 
Maybe the Indian wasn't too much at fault , Ramey thought . 
Maybe he was only doing the best he knew how , like any of us . 
Anyway , he doesn't deserve to lie there in the sun and be stared at . 
`` Ever see yourself spread out on the pavement , Benny '' ? 
He said to his partner . 
`` You mean dream '' ? 
`` Not exactly . 
Just see it '' . 
Benson grinned and flipped a rock with his thumb like a marble . 
`` Nope , just you , all the time -- sometimes I think it's the only way I'll ever get a decent partner '' . 
Ramey smiled but he thought to himself , I always see me too . 
Never Benny . 
Whenever he saw someone lying in the dirt , Ramey wondered what the person had been thinking and he would try out thoughts in his own mind . 
Then he would realize they were really things that only he himself could think . 
With this realization , sometimes , he saw himself as he looked down . 
`` You seen him yet '' ? 
Benson said , referring to the Indian . 
`` He wasn't in the car '' , Ramey said . 
`` You didn't go clear around '' , Benson said . 
`` If you want to see something , he's back on the other side by the trunk of the car '' . 
`` Too long a waiting line '' , Ramey answered , pretending to joke . 
A few minutes later the insurance man , a road checker , drove up in the gray coupe with license plates on it from a far-away state . 
It was a trick they used to try and conceal their identity when they followed trucks to check their speed . 
Sometimes they just parked at the side of the road and used radar on the trucks as they passed . 
All the drivers knew about the plates and they also knew about the big floppy straw hat with shredded edges , the kind natives in travel ads wear when they are out joyfully chopping cane . 
Horsely , an agent on the east end , wore the hat , trying to look like a tourist . 
It had always seemed strange to Ramey that to disguise himself as a tourist , an ex-truck driver like Horsely would merely pick something outlandish and put it on his head . 
The insurance man informed them that he had talked to Crumley who was all right and that he would watch the men's personal effects until they towed the rig back to town . 
He chatted with Ramey and Benson for a minute or so in the meager shade of the trailer . 
Every so often the diminishing sound of a car came under the trailer as it slowed down for the wreck then speeded up again as it got clear . 
When they were ready to leave , Benson and Ramey walked back around the rear of the trailer . 
`` There's a body you won't mind looking at '' , Benson said and they stopped . 
She had driven up with her husband in a convertible with Eastern license plates , although the two drivers knew nothing at the moment about that . 
She wore shorts and a loose terry-cloth shirt . 
Slender and tanned , her dark brown hair was drawn straight back , simply . 
`` What outfit does she drive for '' ? 
Benson said . 
Seeing her caused a lurch in Ramey , a recognition . 
She might have been someone he had once loved . 
He had never seen her before , but now he thought of the manner in which he and Benson went in and out of the cities , at each end of their run . 
The truck routes , the industrial areas with walls grimed with diesel smoke passed briefly through his mind -- back alleys were their access to a city and they could never stay . 
How would you ever see her again ? 
The feeling subsided , it was only a small yearning . 
Their work was lonely . 
`` What's she doing in this bunch '' ? 
Benson said , and Ramey wondered how close their thoughts might have been . 
The girl looked around at the countryside . 
Her glance swung past the trailer where the two drivers were standing . 
It made only a tiny bump over the two men like a tire over a piece of gravel then moved on . 
She began to watch a blonde-haired man , also in shorts , standing right at the rear of the wrecked car in the one spot that most of the crowd had detoured slightly . 
What had caught his attention was obscured by the car itself , so that neither the girl nor the truck drivers could see , but Benson knew what it was . 
The girl took a couple of steps toward the man in shorts when Benson , in that barefoot courtliness Ramey could never decide was real , said , `` You don't want to go around there , Ma'am '' . 
The girl stopped but did not turn her head or acknowledge that someone had spoken to her . 
The man stood near the bent levi-clad body of the Indian who lay face down almost under the car . 
The two drivers moved closer . 
`` What does he want , a spoon '' ? 
Benson said to Ramey . 
One tiny detail in a happening can clog the memory and stick like meat in a crooked tooth , while the rest of the occurrence will go hazy and uncertain . 
With Ramey it was a dusty work shoe that was half-off the Indian's foot that he would always remember . 
The laces were broken at the bottom of the eyelets but there was still a bow knot at the top . 
The slightest twitch would have parted the shoe entirely from the foot , yet the toes were still inside . 
The two men in overalls stood just behind the blonde-headed man . 
He wore tennis shorts and a white sweater with a red V at the neck , the sleeves pushed above the elbows . 
He turned and looked at them with clear blue eyes , immaculate eyes . 
He was very tanned -- big hands might have torn him from a Coca-Cola poster . 
`` He's dead , isn't he '' ? 
The man said . 
He turned and bent over the body of the Indian . 
There was nothing in particular on the man's face . 
It was simply a matter of curiosity , a natural right to examine . 
`` What's this '' ? 
The man said , backing up a step , still looking down . 
His words were mostly to himself . 
`` Don't '' . 
There was a gentle concern in Benson's voice . 
Ramey looked down and saw the white sneaker at the bottom of the man's tanned leg cautiously nudge a bit of folded , blood-flecked substance lying by itself on the pavement . 
`` But what is it '' ? 
The man said with a tone of impatience . 
But what is it ? 
The man had spoken only once . 
Ramey heard the words again inside , weakened , the way moving water sounds through a grove of trees , until he was not sure whether it was sound or light-headedness pressing in his ears . 
The sneaker reached out once more to tap against the mass and Ramey's vision darkened except for an unreasonable clarity of the man's leg . 
Ramey saw sunlight touch the curly blonde hairs on the brown skin . 
He stared at the shining , shining circles of hairs and heard the voice of his partner through trees , `` Don't do that , fella . 
Them's brains '' . 
The man seemed to sink a little as Ramey brought the tire iron down on his shoulder and it seemed that the blonde head was turning as he hit the man again , with his fist . 
Ramey swung and caught the man just to the left of his mouth . 
It was a straight , solid , once-in-a-lifetime shot ; ; he laid all four knuckles in between the man's cheekbone and his chin . 
Ramey's fist and the air expelled from the man's collapsing cheek made a hollow pop in the air like cupped hands clapping together . 
The man took two short steps backward then sat down heavily on the pavement . 
Ramey heard a cry from the girl and felt a slight pain somewhere in his hand . 
As he watched the man sit suddenly , a detached part of his mind observed how very difficult it was , really , to knock a man off his feet . 
He hadn't done it this time and he would never again hit anyone so hard . 
With a thoughtful look , the man sat on the pavement , legs straight out in front of him . 
His arms hung like empty shirt sleeves , and his mouth was slightly open . 
After what seemed several seconds , the open mouth grew dark inside then blood began to ooze from it . 
The man brought one hand up slowly and the fingers fumbled across his face until he touched his mouth . 
He moaned and pulled the hand away . 
Even yet there was no realization in his eyes . 
Ramey could hear the crowd coming up rapidly behind him and the questioning voices coming over his shoulder had no identity or importance to him . 
He did not look around . 
`` What happened '' ? 
Someone said . 
`` He's hurt '' ! 
A woman's voice said , and then he heard a sort of wail from the man's wife . 
The man on the ground began to move ; ; one of his hands flattened out on the pavement and supported him . 
Blood dripped down the front of his sweater , soaking into a dark streak of dirt that ran diagonally across the white wool on his shoulder , as though the bright V woven into the neckline had melted , running a darker color . 
The girl kneeled by her husband with one arm at his back . 
`` Can you hear , can you talk to me '' ? 
She begged . 
An incoherent , puzzled sound came from the red mouth . 
The girl looked around quickly at several of the people . 
None of the crowd had stepped forward to help . 
Then she saw Ramey and her face was misshapen with bewilderment . 
`` Why did you do it -- why did you hit him '' ? 
She said , her voice rising . 
Ramey said nothing . 
A shine in her eyes suddenly became tears and she turned back to her husband again . 
Behind Ramey feet scraped beneath sharp questioning whispers . 
No one seemed to know for sure what had happened , nor was there any purpose or responsibility in the muttering feet and urgent voices behind the driver , beyond finding out . 
Ramey looked around and caught sight of his partner near the front end of the wrecked truck talking to the patrolman . 
Benson moved his arms , gesturing with an unfamiliar vigor and talking rapidly . 
Ramey caught a glimpse of the insurance man . 
Some of the ruddiness was gone from his face and he stared at Ramey . 
It's all over now , the driver thought as he saw the patrolman turn and walk rapidly down along the trailer toward them . 
Ramey watched him coming with a vision as clean as the glare on the metal sides of the trailer . 
He saw the dark sweat spots flip in and out of sight under the patrolman's swinging arms and in the leather holster that swaggered and rolled at the side of his stocky body , the sun left a smoky shine on the narrow strip of blue metal that ran between the horned handles of his pistol . 
`` All right , step back '' ! 
The patrolman said to no one in particular as he pushed between the fat man in the baseball cap and a young boy in levis . 
He walked straight up to the man sitting on the ground and bent over to look at him . 
`` You all right '' ? 
`` Mough -- it's my mough '' , the man said , trying to talk without moving his lips . 
His brown face looked gray from dirt streaks where his hand had come off the dusty pavement and rubbed across it . 
Then he calmly and carefully slugged the remaining five shots into the venomous head -- caught in the wicker back of the chair , the eyes dead on him as the life finally went out of the brute . 
The body continued to lash , but now Keith used the legs of the chair to fork the loathsome , bloody mass out of the bungalow . 
He slammed the door and listened as his servants ran up , alarmed at the sound of the shots . 
He heard their chattering , and then the sounds of hacking as they dismembered the snake right on the porch with wood axes . 
It was only then that he turned to look at Penny . 
She was sitting on the edge of the bed again , back in the same position where the snake had found her . 
The fear had not entirely gone from her face , but there were some other emotions now , crowding into her eyes and the lines of her mouth . 
But her hands were calm , now . 
She's got guts , thought Keith . 
She's got more guts than any other woman in the world . 
`` Keith '' , said Penny , `` Keith , you were wonderful . 
I don't suppose a wife should be grateful to her husband for saving her life , but I am . 
Thank you , Keith '' . 
He smiled at her sincerity . 
And for the hundredth time that week , he was startled at her beauty . 
Strange . 
Seven years they'd been married . 
He knew her mind pretty well , by now , its quick perceptions and sympathies , its painful insistence on truth and directness , its capacity for love almost too deep for a man to reciprocate , even in part . 
But her beauty always surprised him anew . 
`` I realize that this is hardly the time to say it , Penny '' , said Keith . 
`` But knowing you , I know that you're glad to be alive , and grateful -- and sorry because I killed the snake , even though I had to . 
Isn't that so '' ? 
Penny lowered her eyes . 
`` Yes '' , she said , almost in a whisper , as if admitting to a crime . 
`` The snake was beautiful , wasn't it '' ? 
Asked Keith , his voice getting harsher in spite of himself , as he struggled to control his growing anger . 
`` It was a king cobra , the largest you ever saw , and it deserved to live out its life in the jungle , didn't it ? 
didn't it ? 
'' Penny did not answer . 
Now , she just sat there looking at him , without an expression except concern for him . 
`` We're all God's creatures , aren't we '' ? 
Keith was snarling now . 
`` All of us -- every goddam roach and worm and killer in that jungle . 
You love this village and these stinking brown people because they're God's creatures , too . 
And you love Ahmiri , that black bastard of a servant even a little more , because he's a beautiful man . 
And he loves you because you're a beautiful woman . 
We're all God's creatures , aren't we , Penny ? 
All of us , that is , except me . 
You hate me , you hate my guts , because I like to hunt . 
You actually hate me -- and we both know it -- because I killed that filthy snake . 
Well , why don't you say something '' ? 
Penny would not rise to his mood . 
`` There isn't anything left to say , is there , Keith '' ? 
She softly let herself into the bed , and took her regular side , away from the door , where she slept better because Keith was between her and the invader . 
He knew she was not sulking , not even angry at him . 
Just as he knew that she had stopped loving him . 
The Brahmaputra has its headwaters in the tableland of the world , the towering white headwalls of the Himalayas that are unknown to man as any other space on the planet . 
For a brief period each year , the rays of the sun are warm enough to melt some of the snows piled a mile deep at the base of the headwalls , and then the pinnacles glisten in the daytime at high noon , and billions of gallons of water begin their slow seepage under the glaciers and across the rockstrewn hanging valleys on their long , meandering journey to the sea -- running east past the sky-carving massifs of Gurla Mandhata and Kemchenjunga , then turning south and curling down through the jungles of Assam , past the Khasi Hills , and into Bengal , past Sirinjani and Madaripur , until the hard water of the melting snows mingles with the soft drainage of fields and at length fans out to meld with the teeming salt depths of the Bay of Bengal . 
Keith Sterling had looked down on the Brahmaputra more times than he could remember , during the war days when he flew over the Hump of the world , thinking it high adventure in those times before man was guiding himself through outer space . 
But Keith looked down more than up . 
He thought of the jungles below him , and of the wild , strange , untracked beauty there and he promised himself that someday he would return , on foot perhaps , to hunt in this last corner of the world where man is sometimes himself the hunted , and animals the lords . 
At first it had been just a romantic dream of his , the same as the idea of finishing Oxford after the war . 
But `` after the war '' was a luxury of a phrase he did not permit himself . 
Wing Commanders in the RAF do not imply survival in the future either in their orders or in their attitudes , to their men or to themselves . 
And Keith's record of kills made him a man to listen to -- a man paradoxically , who might even survive . 
He became a fighter pilot after the stint over the Hump in the big crates . 
The RAF was Britain's weapon of attrition , and flying a fighter plane was the way her sons could serve her best at this point in the war . 
He knew how to shoot down Nazis . 
And he knew that the men talked about him behind his back , saying that he was one up on everybody else -- including the pilot of the plane with the swastika on it -- because he was chemically incapable of fear . 
That was true , but only half the truth . 
The other half he didn't like to recognize , even to himself . 
He enjoyed the killing . 
Not defending England , or being an ace , or fighting for humanity . 
He enjoyed killing . 
And he would have enjoyed it just as much if he had been a Nazi . 
Nowadays , we talk as though the blitz were just a short skirmish . 
The Nazis bombed Britain , so the RAF retaliated and shot them all down . 
Not quite . 
It was a war of nerves , of stamina , of dogged endurance in which the stupid insistence of the British on their right to their own country became ultimately an unsurmountable obstacle to the Nazis , who were better organized and technically superior . 
It took a long time before the British tipped the balance . 
Keith learned too much about air combat , and air killing , to be risked . 
They grounded him ( over his protests -- not including his true reason for wanting to fly ) and put him in the Command offices . 
That was where he met Penny . 
He was aware of her as a frightfully good-looking American WAC , a second lieutenant assigned to do the paper work , ( regardless of how important she might have thought she was ) in the Command offices , but that was all . 
Penny knew him better , on her part . 
He had a war reputation , but this was the kind of man women like even without medals . 
They don't go for bull-like muscle , as a rule . 
He had strength in his six-foot frame , but it was like the tensile steel in a rapier . 
He was on the thin side , with big hands , and the kind of wrists that give away the power in forearm and bicep . 
His hair was black , already greying at the temples in the classic beauty-idiom , the only one permitted to a man . 
The pretty little twittering WACS said he had the look of eagles -- and Penny , hating the cliche , had to admit that in this case it applied . 
Keith was an eagle . 
Penny and Keith had no romance . 
No dates or hand-holding . 
But they met in one searing moment that gave them to one another instantly . 
The Command offices were in the border country , up north , where the radar systems centralized their intelligence reports , and the fighters were dispatched to harry the enemy . 
The Nazis knew this , of course , and while their chief quarry was the industrial centers , they let a few drop every time they went over , hoping for a lucky hit . 
This time , they had been lucky . 
The Command post was underground , and well camouflaged . 
But there hadn't been enough time to build it for keeps . 
There was a measure of protection in its concrete walls and ceiling , but the engineers who hastily installed it were well aware that concrete is not much better than prayer , if as efficacious , when a direct hit comes along . 
This one was actually more of a `` near miss '' . 
The bomb plunged into the ground near the Post , but not precisely into the Command room itself . 
There was a shattering , cracking sound as the concrete started to buckle , the air filled with dust and flying debris , and everyone in the room -- men and women hit the floor and used the desks as turtlebacks , as ordered . 
That is , everyone but Keith and Penny . 
They stood there , just the two of them , in the rocking , shattering blast . 
Keith was on his feet because he didn't care at all about life any more : Penny on her feet , proudly , because she cared too much . 
The bomb was a solitary one . 
The blast damaged , but did not destroy the room . 
Keith's eyes met Penny's as they stood there in this strange marriage of destruction . 
And , as the others began to crawl out from beneath the desks and tend to those wounded , and mark the several killed , he climbed across the debris to Penny and took her hand in his . 
The chaplain married them , on the next day . 
After the war , Penny had wanted Keith at least to visit her home with her . 
She came from Ohio , from what she called a `` small farm '' of two hundred acres , as indeed it was to farmer-type farmers . 
But to Keith's London-bred mind , such acreage sounded rather invincible . 
It wasn't that , however , which decided them not to go to America . 
Keith told Penny about his dream to return to India and Burma . 
He stressed the wild beauty of the mountains , and the jungles . 
He didn't tell her the truth he now freely admitted to himself . 
He couldn't stop killing . 
That was his true love , not Penny . 
The terrible power of a gun , the thing that blasted the soul out of a living body , man or beast , was one he never wanted to lose . 
And in the hunting land , this hunger was considered to be a noble thing . 
When they got to Shillong , in Assam , he was happy . 
This is a paradise for hunters . 
This was the land of the sladang , the great water buffalo with horns forty inches across the spread . 
The great black leopards . 
The sambur buck , the jungle stag that is even more noble than the Scottish elk . 
He even hunted elephant , although the Asian elephant is not quite as ferocious as his African cousin . 
But there are big rogues in both countries . 
These were the ones Keith sought out -- the loners , the ones who killed for the joy of it , like himself . 
He and Penny would go out on tame elephants , raised from babyhood in the keddah . 
And while he was ever alert for game , and most particularly a tiger , Penny marvelled at the Eden they were traversing . 
They came upon cheetal deer at woodland pools . 
Peacocks strutted across their path , preening . 
There were fantastic flowers without perfume , and gaudy birds without song . 
Mouse deer played around the feet of the elephants , or fled when the mighty legs thrashed too close . 
Wild boar watched their progress with little pig eyes , and grunted derision when they didn't consider such game worthy of a shot from the . 
Now , the next morning , they were anchored at The Elbow and the boat was riding directly over the underwater ledge where the green water turned to deepest blue and the cliff dropped straight down 600 fathoms , with the weighted line beside it ; ; and Robinson Roy , who had gone down this line ten minutes before to set a new depth record for the free dive , was already back on the surface . 
He and his safety man , Herr Schaffner , swam up to the boarding ladder together . 
The German courteously indicated that Robinson should mount first . 
Robinson clambered heavily into the boat , sat down , and stripped off his triple-tank assembly . 
He was frowning . 
He took his mask from his forehead and threw it , unexpectedly , across the deck . 
`` Temper , temper '' , Mrs. Forsythe said , laughing uneasily . 
A phony blonde hanging onto a bygone youth and beauty , but irreparably stringy in the neck , she was already working on her second gin and tonic , though it was not yet ten A.M. `` I loused it '' , Rob said , with a savage note in his voice . 
`` All I have to do to set the record is to go on down . 
So instead I come up '' . 
`` Was it my equipment '' ? 
The German asked . 
`` Was it something went bad with the breathing '' ? 
`` The equipment was fine '' , Rob stated , standing up . 
He was a huge young man of twenty-four , clothed in muscle , immensely strong , with a habitual gentleness and diffidence of manner that was submerged under his present agitation . 
He stared stonily at the floor . 
`` I was down to 275 . 
I've been that far half a dozen times . 
I don't get it why this time I should pull such a stupid trick '' . 
`` Well , I get it '' , Artie said , still on the ladder . 
`` You are a big muscle-bound ape and you got this idea about setting a record . 
And you also got this little spark in your bird-brain that tells you to turn around before you drown yourself . 
So you turn around '' . 
`` No , it wasn't that '' , Rob said . 
A note of awe came into his voice . 
`` When I came up , damnit , I thought I was going down . 
I came up maybe fifty feet before I knew what was happening '' . 
`` Pressure-happy '' , Artie said , and climbed in . 
`` That's right '' , Robinson said . 
`` I was expecting it , sure . 
But when it happens to you like that , I tell you , and you're a hundred feet from where you thought you were -- well , it makes you think . 
You don't head back down again . 
Not me , anyway . 
Not right away '' . 
He had his voice under control again : no one became aware that he was terrified by what had just happened to him . 
Waddell , the newspaperman , was a fellow in his middle forties , with a graying crewcut , heavy-framed glasses , and a large jaw padded with fat . 
Now he was going to show how much he knew . 
`` Our boy didn't chicken out , no sir . 
He ran into the rapture of the depths . 
Nitrogen narcosis . 
It makes the diver feel drunk '' . 
`` Well , that's the only way to be '' , Mrs. Forsythe said , and gave her brassy laugh . 
`` Maybe not , if you're 200 feet under water '' , Artie said . 
`` Anyway '' , Waddell went on . 
`` It's nothing to fool with . 
It can kill you . 
Personally , I don't blame him for giving up the dive , much as I regret losing the story '' . 
`` Nobody's giving anything up '' , Robinson said . 
He stood there , towering over them all : gentle , mighty , determined , the moving force in the group ; ; and yet like a child among adults . 
`` You think I got you and Artie and Herr Schaffner all the way out here just for the boat ride ? 
I'm going down again '' . 
`` That's my boy '' ! 
Mr. Forsythe exclaimed . 
`` Rob's not going to give up as easy as all that '' . 
He was a florid , puffy man in his early sixties , very natty in his yachting cap , striped jacket and white flannels . 
He went to Key West every fall and winter and was the only man in town who did not know that his title of `` Commodore '' was never used without irony . 
Old Commodore Forsythe , who had once lost a fifty-dollar bet on whether he could get both motors started and turn on the running lights without accidentally turning on something else first . 
Now it did not occur to him even to wonder whether it was wise for Robinson to dive again : Rob was his boy , the kid he had rescued from the streets , the object of his pride . 
`` Why '' , he went on , `` when Rob asked me if he could make his dive on this trip , I didn't think twice about it . 
I've helped him along ever since he was a youngster hanging around his brother's tackle shop . 
Hell , I gave him the first decent job he ever had , six , seven -- how many years ago was it , Rob '' ? 
`` Seven years ago , Commodore '' , Rob said impassively . 
He was thinking , big deal : skipper on his drunken fishing parties for seven years and no better off than when I started . 
`` Excuse me '' , he said abruptly . 
He went down the steps to the galley and sleeping quarters ; ; went into the forward stateroom and locked the door behind him . 
`` When you gotta go , you gotta go '' , Mrs. Forsythe said . 
Waddell muttered something about taking a look around and climbed up to the flying bridge . 
He was disturbed by what had happened on the dive and by what he remembered of a conversation he had had the night before with the German , who had come out of the head while he was fixing himself a drink in the galley . 
`` Hi there , Schaffner '' , he had said . 
`` Can I make you one '' ? 
`` No thank you very much '' , Schaffner had answered in his accented English . 
`` I do not drink so much , thank you '' . 
Waddell had looked the man over , trying to size him up . 
He was in his early forties , rather short and very compactly built , and with a manner that was reserved and stiff despite his efforts to adapt himself to American ways . 
His open face seemed to promise a sort of innocence , until one looked into his eyes , which had no warmth in them but only alert intelligence . 
Waddell had heard that he had been a commando in Rommel's Afrika Corps , and he said to himself : I'd hate to run into him in the desert on a dark night . 
Aloud he had said , making conversation : `` Rob tells me he's using your Atlantis equipment on the dive '' . 
`` Yes '' , Herr Schaffner had said . 
`` He's one hell of a decent boy . 
I like that kid '' . 
`` I agree , yes '' . 
`` And if the dive goes OK he has the exclusive import rights to your line for this country , is that right '' ? 
`` Well , no '' , Herr Schaffner said . 
Waddell turned to face him . 
`` No '' ? 
He asked . 
`` But that's what he told me . 
Why , that's his main reason for making the dive '' . 
Shaffner looked at him , altogether without guile , and shrugged his shoulders , making a little spreading gesture with his two hands . 
`` What do you mean '' ? 
Waddell asked , frowning . 
`` Please let me explain '' , the German said earnestly , his face still devoid of deceit . 
`` I have in Europe a gross business of seven million dollars the year . 
Now I wish to enter the American market , where the competition is very strong . 
I must have a powerful representative here , a firm with a national distribution and ten , twenty thousand dollars to advertise my products . 
With all respect to a fine young man , Mr. Roy is not able to provide these necessaries '' . 
Waddell was not an eminently moral person , but he did not like what he had just heard . 
`` Did you tell him all this '' ? 
He asked . 
`` Perhaps not in so many words '' , the German said . 
`` But surely you have misunderstood Mr. Roy . 
Never , never did I offer him the exclusive rights . 
We spoke of the need for advertising , and I agreed that the deep dive would be most useful for publicity . 
He was most eager to make the dive ; ; of course , I was willing . 
But there was no definite agreement about business arrangements '' . 
`` Well , damn '' , Waddell said . 
There was the end of his front-page feature story , with byline . 
He started out the door . 
`` One moment '' ! 
Herr Schaffner said . 
`` You intend to speak with Mr. Roy '' ? 
`` What else '' ? 
Waddell asked . 
`` If you will pardon , I think it would be better if not . 
Mr. Roy is determined to make this dive . 
Whatever you tell him he will dive . 
I know this from my talks with him '' . 
`` Well , let's let him make up his own mind , OK '' ? 
Waddell said . 
`` On the basis of the facts '' . 
`` You will make him unhappy and anxious '' , the German said . 
`` At 200 , 300 , 400 feet under the water , when he must be paying very much attention , he will be thinking about what you are telling him . 
It is not good , Mr. Waddell : you will do him great harm '' . 
There was no doubt that Herr Schaffner meant every word of what he said . 
Waddell came back from the door and sat on a bunk . 
`` I am an honest man '' , the German said with fervor . 
`` I will give Mr. Roy his due for this dive . 
I will make him distributor for all of Florida -- a big market . 
All tourists come to Florida . 
This will help him to get out of his little tackle shop . 
Yes ! 
But there is no use causing him to worry at this time '' . 
The German's words worked on the newspaperman like a reprieve from an odious duty . 
He took a big swig of his drink . 
It would be a colossal shame to throw away a story like this . 
`` I think maybe you're right , Schaffner '' , he said . 
`` He has the distributorship for Florida , you say '' ? 
`` Yes '' , the German said . 
`` At least for South Florida '' . 
`` By God '' , Waddell said , `` we don't want to upset the boy at this time of all times . 
I guess you're right '' . 
He sloshed his drink around and drained it in a few large gulps . 
The story was shaping up nicely in his mind : the young pioneer , as of old , altruistically braving the unknown ; ; the rewards prompt and juicy in modern big-business America . 
`` Join me in another '' ? 
He had asked . 
`` Thank you '' , the German had said courteously . 
`` I do not drink so much '' . 
Now , in that same cabin , Robinson fell to his knees beside a bunk . 
Fear and relief mingled in his churning emotions . 
He pressed his palms together and addressed himself to the patron saint of divers in a hurried and anxious whisper . 
`` Blessed Saint Nicholas , I thank thee for getting me out of that mess and sending me up instead of down when I was bewildered . 
And when I make the dive again '' -- He paused ; ; crossed himself ; ; said a Hail Mary , slowly and with understanding . 
Folding between his hands the cross that hung from his neck , he took his appeal direct to Headquarters . 
`` Holy Mary , Mother of God , Star of the Sea , stay Thou with me on this next dive . 
Make it come off all right . 
Let me set the record this time , and let me get back OK , so the German will give me the exclusive . 
And make my life different and better from this time on . 
Amen '' . 
He crossed himself again and rose . 
He felt a good deal less shaky . 
As he reached for the door there was a knock on it and when he opened he found Artie , who came in and sat down on a bunk . 
Artie had picked up a snorkle and was twirling it on his forefinger . 
He waited awhile before he said , `` Roy , you know your decompression table , don't you '' ? 
`` You know I know it '' , Robinson answered warily . 
`` You came straight up from 275 without a stop '' , Artie said . 
`` Well , I was a little bit confused . 
Anyway , I wasn't down long enough to matter . 
You don't see me stretched out on the deck , do you '' ? 
`` You know what they say about two deep dives in one day '' , Artie went on , still twirling the snorkle and studying it intently . 
`` I don't think you should go down again '' . 
Early that day Matsuo saw a marine . 
The enemy came looming around a bend in the trail and Matsuo took a hasty shot , then fled without knowing the result , ran until breath was a pain in his chest and his legs were rubbery . 
As his feet slowed , he felt ashamed of the panic and resolved to make a stand . 
He crossed the next meadow and climbed a tree where the jungle trail resumed . 
In the leafiest part of the tree , straddling a broad horizontal limb , he could see over the meadow . 
For a while he was content to let events develop in their good time . 
He had no doubt the marine was the lead scout of a column , and while his shot had probably bred indecision , they would soon come hunting . 
His superiors had emphasized that marines tortured others for the sheer pleasure . 
Yesterday ; ; today ; ; tomorrow : no surrender . 
His remembering the self-dictate brought no peace -- only a faint chill of doubt . 
He murmured to himself , with firmness : `` No surrender '' . 
It was best to die fighting the marines . 
His superiors had also preached this , saying it was the way for eternal honor . 
What if the marines never came ? 
His comrades were all dead . 
He had no rice . 
Then it would be a choice between starvation and suicide . 
Whichever the way , he would rot in this vast choking green , his wife never to receive an urn of his ashes . 
He sighed and leaned for a moment against the trunk . 
His fingers touched the bone handle of a knife . 
The knife , an ammunition pouch , and a half-filled bottle of purified water hung on his belt . 
Besides the belt he wore a loin cloth . 
As he looked up from picking at a leg ulcer , he saw a marine in the jungle across the clearing . 
Gloom receded . 
The marine came to the edge of the green jungle mist and stayed , as though debating whether to brave the sunlight . 
His fatigues made a streak of almost phosphorescent green in the mist . 
`` Come out , come out in the meadow '' , Matsuo said under his breath . 
The man leaned against a tree and wiped a sleeve across his face . 
A signal ? 
Matsuo lifted his rifle , easing the sling under his left upper arm for steadiness . 
Fresh on his mind were events of the past day when his whole regiment was destroyed in the hills . 
They had fought from caves , and the marines resorted to burning them out . 
Even now , like a ringing in his ears , he heard the wooooosh of flame-throwers squirting great orange billows . 
A wave of flame rippling through their cave had reached Nagamo , his friend , and with a shriek the man bolted through the entrance , then slowed to the jerky walk of a puppet , his uniform blazing . 
The marines let him advance . 
When he sank on his knees , they had allowed him to char without administering the stroke of mercy . 
Matsuo had faked death and was pitched on a stack of corpses , both the burned and the unburned , the latter decomposing rapidly under the tropical sun . 
The callous marines had laughed at each other's retching , while stacking bodies . 
Matsuo repeatedly choked down his own nausea . 
At nightfall he had been able to sneak down a hillside and into the jungle , reeking of death . 
Apprehensively he peered to the left , to the right into the leafy , vine-crisscrossed maze . 
He decided that the marines must be deploying around the meadow , with the one left to distract him . 
He strained his hearing . 
Cautious feet stepping on leafmold ; ; faint creaking of belts and slings ; ; whispers : he heard none of these . 
Only the hum of insects and the distant fluttering call of a bird . 
Because he couldn't hear them , he was more convinced they were there . 
A spectacle occurred across the meadow : the lone marine took a seat on the ground ; ; leaning sidewise on a tree trunk , he embraced it . 
Humiliation made Matsuo tremble . 
While his comrades cocked the trap , that one behaved as if it was some dull maneuver . 
Taking aim at the man's face , Matsuo squeezed the trigger up to the point of discharge , and then he changed his mind . 
He wanted the arrogant marine to know fear , and so he aimed above the head . 
The shot reverberated in diminishing whiplashes of sound . 
Hush followed . 
Like a mischievous boy expecting punishment , Matsuo awaited reaction from the jungle . 
How stupid to give his position away . 
The jungle did not retort . 
The sitter remained seated hugging the tree . 
Before long the atmosphere reverted to its old normalcy , and insects hummed and birds occasionally called . 
Matsuo puzzled and grew anxious over the complete passiveness , concluding that he was the butt of a devilish joke . 
Five or so minutes later the marine abruptly pulled up and stepped into sunlight , immediately throwing his hands over his eyes . 
He went into a whirling dance , a sort of blind chasing of the tail . 
It ended when he tumbled ; ; but jumping right up , he staggered in no particular direction . 
He wore no head cover of any kind and , more odd , had no visible weapon . 
With a sudden decisiveness he lurched in Matsuo's direction , crossing the meadow in a zigzagging gallop . 
When he got closer to the tree , Matsuo noted the wild look on his face . 
The pockets of his jacket bulged . 
Hand grenades . 
The bobbing head was a poor target , so Matsuo shot him in the upper trunk . 
The marine spun , clapping a hand high on his chest , and dived forward . 
In the hush that followed the echoes , Matsuo was tense . 
They could come on him now without difficulty . 
Gradually he reached a conclusion . 
The marine was alone , for they were impatient people and by now would have vied to knock him from the tree . 
Down the tree he scrambled and knelt at the edge of foliage . 
The marine was sprawled some thirty yards away , one arm extended . 
Matsuo jumped when the hidden arm flopped out . 
Reflex ? 
Rifle leveled on the man , he made a rush . 
Heat , in the sunlight , pressed in like an invisible crowd . 
He squatted by the head , gently placing the rifle on the ground . 
With a snakestrike motion he grasped the hair , and , twisting , pulled the marine over on his back . 
He was bearded . 
The bullet had penetrated in the area of the right collarbone ; ; around the hole , blood glistened in a little patch . 
Maintaining his clutch on the hair , Matsuo watched the closed eyes while rummaging in the jacket pockets . 
In one : a package of cigarettes and a tinplated lighter , both sticky from the man's bleeding . 
In the other : a wristwatch with broken crystal wrapped in a dirty handkerchief . 
One by one he tossed the objects aside . 
He didn't smoke and could not light fires with a flintless lighter ; ; he had no use any longer for exact time , even had the watch been running . 
Then there was no saying how many times the marine had blown his nose on the handkerchief . 
Too bad the marine had no water . 
From its holder he took his own canteen . 
The cap was stuck and made a thin rusty squeaking as he applied pressure . 
The marine's eyes opened , squeezed shut , then opened squinted in the glare . 
So , alive . 
Matsuo put the bottle to his own lips . 
The marine reached up a hand . 
Matsuo shook his head . 
`` None for you '' . 
The marine blinked , soon dropping his hand . 
Not only had he no canteen , but he lacked even the belt to hang one on . 
`` You came well equipped to die '' . 
Some odor made him lean over the man . 
He sniffed and recognized it . 
Sake . 
So that had been his difficulty . 
Drunk on sake , he must have wandered off from his bivouac . 
The marine tried to roll on his right side , and moaned . 
When he rolled on the left side , propping on his left elbow , Matsuo seized his hair and pulled him back over . 
`` Be a good turtle '' . 
Awkwardly with one hand Matsuo got the cap back on the water bottle . 
The smell of sake had freshened yesterday's events in his thoughts . 
In the caves , with other supplies , they had kept cases of sake . 
The marine shut his eyes . 
`` Are you a thrower of flame , marine '' ? 
Matsuo took the small knife from its scabbard and laid it on the ground , out of the marine's reach and away from their shadows . 
He waited in his squat , gripping the hair . 
Every so often he turned the knife . 
Its blade was dazzling in the intense sunlight . 
The sun was noon high and Matsuo perspired until his body was dripping . 
Wet also were the marine's fatigues and the face had an oily film . 
The man had thrown the left hand over his eyes . 
Now and again he murmured something that ended in a giggle . 
He must have saturated himself in the drink , for the bullet not to shock him out of his drunken haze . 
Matsuo shook his head . 
Strange . 
At last he reached for the knife . 
Even the bone handle scorched , and he retrieved the marine's handkerchief to wrap it . 
First he barely touched the blade on the hand which shaded the eyes . 
The marine yelled and flung the hand away . 
With a firm grip on the man's hair Matsuo applied the blade flat on a cheek . 
A shrill yelp , kicked legs , and groping hands that circled Matsuo's wrist . 
Matsuo wrenched free and burned the hands into retreat ; ; burned the other cheek ; ; burned each hand when they came groping again . 
The marine commenced to weep and it blighted the sense of enjoyment . 
Matsuo stood up . 
`` A small measure of payment , marine '' . 
He dropped the knife in its scabbard , hung the rifle behind a shoulder . 
The marine , hands on cheeks , rolled by his unwounded side onto his stomach . 
He ceased weeping . 
Matsuo walked toward his tree , once glancing back . 
The marine was still . 
He would soon die . 
As Matsuo climbed by using the vines and kicking his feet against the trunk , a mood of gloom immersed him like a jungle shadow . 
What now ? 
In the jungle , birds were mute , while insects preserved only the monotony of living . 
Someone called . 
It was the marine : head lifted , he strained and called . 
Then he astonished Matsuo by pushing and dragging himself until he sat . 
He cupped his mouth and yelled . 
Matsuo hustled the rifle off his shoulder . 
Once and for all he'd finish this marine who would not die . 
He aimed , but listened . 
It sounded as if the man were calling him : `` Hey , Japanese hey there , Japanese '' . 
The man tilted back his head and went through the pantomime of drinking from a container . 
He performed the act twice more , and the begging in his tone grew more distinct . 
`` Sake '' ? 
Matsuo called . 
The marine nodded vigorously . 
Matsuo laughed , slung the rifle . 
The marine was a winehead . 
His superiors had said that all marines were depraved . 
The marine slumped forward into a bow like a priest before an idol . 
Remembering his own thirst , Matsuo took out his water bottle . 
One swallow was all he would have ; ; he was very thirsty , but he must observe water discipline . 
His years of campaigning had taught him the value of water discipline . 
He began to uncap the bottle , the rusty cap squealing on its threads . 
Popping upright , the marine waved both hands and shouted . 
Of course it was water he really craved ; ; down in the broil of the sun he was becoming dried out . 
The marine shouted for it until it seemed that his voice had to crack . 
Matsuo shook his head . 
He had no water for an enemy . 
And when this was gone , he hadn't even a little bitter tablet to purify other water if he were to discover some stagnant jungle pool . 
He capped the bottle and replaced it . 
After all , he had less reason to desire it than the marine . 
Before much longer the marine quieted down . 
His head slumped . 
The upper part of his packet had stained dark . 
`` Marine . 
There is nothing for you '' , Matsuo said . 
`` Your superiors will certainly beat you for your desertion , besides the dishonor of it . 
I've nothing for you '' . 
From the convulsive quivers of the man's shoulders it was plain he had resumed the weeping . 
He reminded Matsuo of a similar thing he had witnessed in China . 
In China it was a baby sitting on a railroad platform , smudged , blood-specked , with the village burning about him and shells exploding . 
Chairs scraped back and customers hastily vacated their tables as the tall young buffalo hunter pushed open the swing doors and walked towards the bar . 
Only Blue Throat and his gang stayed where they were . 
Blue Throat was slumped with his back against the bar , elbows supporting his massive frame . 
He leered at the stranger as the distance between them closed . 
`` Since when did they allow beardless kids into the saloon bars of this town , boys '' ? 
He asked . 
`` Seems to me I don't remember altering any law about that '' . 
He straightened up , alert now as the buffalo hunter came closer . 
`` Stay right here where you are , kid '' , he called . 
`` I don't aim to have minors breathing down my neck when I'm a-drinking '' : The stranger ignored him . 
He didn't stop till he was within three feet of Blue Throat and by that time the gang leader's right hand was on the butt of his revolver . 
`` I'm Billy Tilghman '' , said the stranger , `` and I've come for Pat Conyers' body '' . 
`` And what makes you think you're going to get it , pretty boy '' ? 
`` Because I'm asking . 
Most of the time I get what I ask for '' . 
Blue Throat winked at his six cronies . 
`` The kid has no manners , boys . 
Shall we teach him some '' ? 
His gun was half drawn when he asked the question , but the weapon never left its holster . 
Tilghman's clenched fist swept over in a terrific right cross and clipped the big gunfighter on the side of his chin . 
His head snapped round and he reeled back , crashing into the table where his buddies were sprawling . 
Tilghman leapt on to him , dragged him upright and hit him again , this time sending him careening against the bar . 
A bullet gouged into the bar top an inch from Tilghman's stomach as Blue Throat's henchmen started shooting . 
Tilghman flung himself aside , dropped on one knee and pulled his own gun . 
The Colt roared twice and two men dropped , writhing . 
A third shot doused the light . 
Somewhere at the far end of the room a voice yelled , `` You all right , Billy '' ? 
`` Yes , George , but I ain't got poor old Pat's body yet . 
And I aim to have it '' . 
He fired again , and somewhere in the gloom a man screamed . 
Another took off his gun belt and flung his weapons to the floor . 
`` OK , Tilghman , I'm quitting '' . 
`` And me '' , said another Blue Throat henchman . 
Somebody brought a light . 
Tilghman and his partner , George Rust , herded the men into a corner . 
`` And now '' , said Tilghman with deadly calm , `` I'll repeat what I said . 
I've come for Pat Conyers' body '' . 
In two minutes the body of Tilghman's former comrade , who had been killed by Blue Throat in a gambling brawl the previous night , was carried into the town's funeral parlor to be prepared for decent burial . 
Blue Throat , nursing an aching jaw and a collosal dose of wounded pride , rode out of town with the survivors of the fight . 
`` That critter will be back tomorrow '' , predicted George Rust , `` and he'll bring fifty of his kind back with him . 
Blue Throat won't stand for this . 
He'll shoot up the town '' . 
The prediction was correct . 
The Reverend James Doran had scarcely completed Pat Conyers' last rites on Boot Hill in the township of Petrie , when shots were heard in the distance . 
`` Amen '' , said the Reverend Doran , grabbing his rifle propped up against a tombstone , `` and now my brethren , it would seem that our presence is required elsewhere '' . 
Billy Tilghman and his comrades rode off to the battle . 
Blue Throat , who had ruled the town with his six-shooter for the last six months , certainly had no intention of relinquishing his profitable dictatorship . 
It was essential that he should restore his formidable reputation as a rip-roaring , ruthless gun-slinger , and this was the time-honored Wild West method of doing it . 
He rode in at the head of sixty trigger-happy and liquor-crazed desperadoes and took over a livery barn at the entrance to Main Street . 
The entire length of the street could be raked with rifle fire from this barn . 
Any posse riding down the street to demand Blue Throat's surrender would be wiped out with one deadly burst of fire . 
The law-abiding citizens of Petrie had gathered inside Kaster's Store , halfway down the street . 
Several were firing into the barn when Billy Tilghman arrived . 
He sized up the situation and shook his head . 
`` If Blue Throat has his way he'll keep us all cooped up in here for days '' , he said . 
`` There's only one thing to move him fast , and we have it right here in this very store '' . 
He called the store owner and together they went into the stockroom . 
Billy returned with six sticks of dynamite . 
`` I'm gonna drop these into Blue Throat's lap '' , he announced , `` and I'd like every gun to be firing into that barn while I get near enough to toss 'em through the window '' . 
He slipped outside , hugging the walls of buildings and dodging into doorways . 
Blue Throat's men spotted him and a hail of bullets splintered the store fronts and board walk as he passed . 
Fifty yards away from the barn he dodged inside a barber's shop and came out at the back . 
Here he couldn't be seen by Blue Throat and his gang . 
All he had to do was light the fuses of the dynamite sticks , run to within ten yards of an open window in the barn and hurl the sticks through . 
Billy Tilghman did just that . 
Within seconds the big barn was blasted into smoking splinters , with every outlaw either dead or injured inside . 
It was the abrupt end of Blue Throat's dictatorship in Petrie . 
Though only slightly injured himself the big hoodlum never returned to those parts . 
To Tilghman the incident was just one of a long list of hair-raising , smash-'em-down adventures on the side of the law which started in 1872 when he was only eighteen years old , and did not end till fifty years later when he was shot dead after warning a drunk to be quiet . 
Of all the rip-roaring two-fisted tough boys of the Old West , `` Uncle Billy Tilghman '' stands out head and shoulders . 
He was the lawman who survived more gunfights than any other famous gun-slinging character in the book . 
He saw the most action , beat up more badmen with his bare fists , broke up the most gangs and sent more murderers to the gallows than any other U.S. marshal who lived before or after him . 
For fifty years his guns and ham-like fists shot holes through and battered the daylights out of the enemies of law and order in the frontier towns of the West . 
The deeds of countless western bandits and outlaws have been glorified almost to the point of hero-worship , but because Billy Tilghman remained strictly on the side of the law throughout his action-packed career , his achievements and the appalling risks he took while taming the West have remained almost unsung . 
Citizens took the view that a lawman was expected to risk his life on the odd occasion anyway , but this fighting fury of a man risked it regularly over a period of half a century . 
He came within an ace of being riddled with bullets during his long fight with the Doolin gang which terrorized Oklahoma in the 1890's . 
Led by Bill Doolin , these mobsters specialized in train robberies but as a sideline they looted stores and robbed banks , making liberal use of their guns . 
Bill Doolin's ambition , it appeared , was to carve out his name with bullets alongside those of Jesse James and Billy the Kid , and Bill Tilghman had sworn he would stop him . 
Tilghman knew that some ranchers were hand-in-glove with the Doolin gang . 
They bought rustled cattle from the outlaw , kept him supplied with guns and ammunition , harbored his men in their houses . 
Billy decided to set an example by arresting one of the ranchers , named Ed Dunn , who lived at Rock Fort . 
On a bitterly cold day in January , 1895 , accompanied only by Neal Brown as his deputy , Tilghman left the township of Guthrie and headed for Rock Fort and Dunn's ranch . 
It was snowing hard when they got there and they saw no horses outside . 
The only evidence of occupation came from the chimney , which was belching out thick smoke . 
The two lawmen halted their wagon about twenty yards from the door . 
`` Wait here , Neal '' , said Tilghman . 
`` If I don't come out within half an hour ride back to town and bring out a posse '' . 
Leaving his rifle in the wagon , Tilghman walked up to the door and hammered on it . 
There was no reply so he shoved it open with his foot and stepped inside . 
Directly opposite the door was a roaring log fire , a welcome sight on that bitterly cold day . 
Seated near it with his back to the door was the rancher , Ed Dunn . 
`` Hello , Ed '' , said Tilghman . 
The rancher grunted an acknowledgement but didn't move . 
Tilghman closed the door behind him and walked towards the fire . 
Suddenly he saw something which made his big heart give a sickening lurch and caused the hairs to bristle on the back of his neck . 
Along each side of the room were six tiered bunks , each one screened off with a curtain . 
And projecting wickedly through these curtains were the gleaming muzzles of six rifles , all trained on Billy Tilghman . 
The fighting marshal had walked right into a trap and at any moment six slugs might slam into his hide . 
Thinking fast , Tilghman never hesitated for one instant . 
He walked right up to the fire as though blissfully unaware of the guns covering him . 
The men behind them were Bill Doolin and five of his gang -- every man a killer . 
`` Cold day '' , said Tilghman , placing his hands behind him and casually presenting his backside to the fire . 
`` Just dropped in to ask where Jed Hawkins lives . 
Can't seem to locate landmarks in this snow '' . 
The rancher was trembling . 
He wouldn't look Tilghman in the face . 
`` Follow the river for five miles '' , he said hoarsely . 
`` Jed's homestead is on the south bank '' . 
Resisting the overwhelming temptation to flng himself out of that bristling death-trap , Tilghman deliberately engaged the nervous rancher in trivial conversation for a good ten minutes . 
All that time rifle barrels were pointing unwaveringly at his head and body . 
One false move on his part and he would be a dead man . 
`` Well '' , he announced , `` Guess I'll be going now , Ed , and thanks for the warmup '' . 
He strolled back to the door , whistling softly , hands still clasped behind him . 
He left the house and almost certain death without even increasing his pace and wondered by what remarkable stroke of Providence he had been allowed to come out alive . 
But he knew well enough that those guns would still be trained on his back as he walked towards the wagon . 
If he showed signs of collecting his rifle and going back with his deputy to the ranch he would be shot down instantly . 
Leisurely he climbed on to the wagon next to Neal Brown . 
`` Don't say or do anything '' , he said softly . 
`` Just get out of here without it looking as though we're in a hurry . 
That place is crawling with Bill Doolin and his gang '' . 
Even as he spoke those words Billy Tilghman's life hung on a thread . 
Back in the house a hoodlum named Red Buck , sore because Billy had been allowed to leave unscathed , jumped from a bunk and swore he was going after him to kill him right then . 
`` You'll stay right here '' , commanded Bill Doolin , covering Red with his rifle . 
`` Billy Tilghman is too good a man to shoot in the back . 
We'll let him go '' . 
But the fighting marshal's fifty-year run of immunity from violent death came to a full and final stop one night in a street at Cromwell , Oklahoma , where he had been sent to clean up the gambling and vice rackets . 
Wiley Lynn , a self-styled prohibition officer , had hit town the previous day and had been drinking ever since . 
That night he reeled out of Ma Murphy's dance hall and proceeded to disturb the peace by shooting off his revolver . 
For several months now , Jack Carter , a big overgrown boy of fifteen with a fuzzy , pimpled face and greenish catlike eyes with a lot of red in them , had been haunted by a dream , a vision , of a Woman . 
This Woman had no distinct shape or size and no particular face , but she radiated warmth , a sweet warmth ; ; she would talk to him in a soothing voice about things his mother would have said were not nice and put her hands on him and kiss him passionately . 
When she would do these things , he would turn blind for an instant and become sick at his stomach . 
Then he would run to the toilet behind the house . 
Sometimes he did this three or four times a day , for this Woman was almost always with him . 
He would feel ashamed each time and wonder whether his mother and father knew -- thinking they might see it in his eyes or smell it on him . 
But they never said anything , so he figured it was all right . 
And so when Miss Langford came to teach at the one-room Chestnut school , where Jack was a pupil in the eighth grade , the Woman of Jack's mind assumed the teacher's face and figure . 
He could not keep his eyes off her when at school ; ; when he went home at night , he took her with him in his mind , and she did the things the anonymous Woman used to do , and he did the thing afterwards each time as he used to do . 
When he awoke in the mornings , she was in his mind and he could hardly wait to get to school to be near her in the flesh . 
Miss Langford ( her first name was Evelyn ) was an attractive girl . 
Tall , blonde , blue-eyes , fair , buxom without being heavy , she cut a fine figure of budding womanhood as she swished among the pupils in her fresh , starched summer dress . 
Something was beginning to stir and come alive in her , too ( it may have been there for a good while , since she was twenty now ; ; but if it had been , it had been smothered until now by fear ) : you could tell it by the way she watched the older , bigger boys , like Jack . 
She would look at Jack , with that hidden something in her eyes , and Jack would see the Woman and become breathless and a little sick . 
School began in August , the hottest part of the year , and for the first few days Miss Langford was very lenient with the children , letting them play a lot and the new ones sort of get acquainted with one another . 
The first two or three days they went home early . 
All , that is , except Jack . 
He hung around the schoolhouse , watching through a window from outside while Miss Langford straightened desks and put the room in order . 
Once ( this was on the third day of school ) she kneeled down to pick up some books where they'd dropped on the floor and Jack looked up her dress -- at the bare expanse of incredibly white leg . 
He thought for a moment his heart had stopped beating . 
About that time Miss Langford straightened up and looked out the window directly at him , he thought , although probably she didn't even see him . 
He jumped back , ducked and ran , crouching , down the hill away from the school . 
He didn't look back and he ran until he was out of sight of the schoolhouse and out of breath ; ; then he slowed to a walk . 
The vision became even stronger now . 
`` I'll get her yet '' , he muttered to himself . 
`` I've got to get her '' . 
That night he dreamed a dream violent with passion , in which he and the Woman , now the teacher , did everything except engage in the act ( and this probably only because he had never engaged in the act in reality ) , and when he awoke the next morning his heart was afire . 
He ate litle that morning , and his mother became concerned , inasmuch as he usually ate heartily . 
`` What's the matter , honey '' ? 
She said , with the solicitude of a middle-aged woman for her only child . 
`` Aren't you hungry '' ? 
`` No , I'm not hungry '' , he said , pushing back the bacon and eggs . 
Outside it was already hot at 7:30 A.M. , and it was getting hot in the kitchen . 
He felt a little sick at his stomach . 
`` Are you sick '' ? 
`` No '' , he said . 
`` I'll be all right . 
I guess it's this hot weather '' . 
`` Don't you play hard today then . 
And if you get sick , ask the teacher to let you come home early . 
Daddy left the car for me , and I'm going to town this afternoon '' . 
`` OK. , I won't play hard '' , he promised . 
Just then Charles Lever yelled , `` Hey , Jack '' , from the quarry road which ran behind the Carter house , and Jack grabbed the lunch from the table and darted out the kitchen door , yelling `` Good-bye , Mom '' over his shoulder . 
`` Whaddya say , boy '' ? 
Charles said , grinning , showing his huge yellow teeth . 
Charles , also fifteen , was tall and skinny , scraggly , with straight black hair like an Indian's and sharp brown eyes . 
He considered himself handsome and seemed to think all the girls were after him . 
`` You know what I done last night '' ? 
Charles said as they picked their way over the rocky road which led up the hill away from the Dixie Highway , through a corn field and a patch of woods to the school . 
Jack knew of course that the tale to be unfolded would involve a girl and probably be dirty , because girls were Charles' only apparent interest . 
But Jack always derived vicarious sensual thrills from Charles' revelations ( even when he suspected his friend of exaggeration or invention ) , so he usually invited them , as he did now . 
`` No . 
What '' ? 
`` I got Margaret Rider in one of them old box cars down there by the quarry '' . 
A nude imaginary picture of Miss Langford flashed across Jack's mind . 
His heart beat faster . 
`` Hell you say '' ? 
He said , lapsing into the profanity he often used when away from his parents and especially when he was with Charles . 
`` How'd you do it '' ? 
`` Hell , I jist got on top of -- '' `` No , I mean how'd you get her to do it '' ? 
`` Hell , I jist ask her '' . 
`` Jist like that '' ? 
`` Hell , yes . 
She's been hangin' around me a lot here lately , and I figgered I might as well's try it . 
Besides I heard her old uncle that stays there has been doin' it '' . 
`` I never heard that '' . 
`` It's all over Branchville . 
If you'd get out of your back yard once in a while you might even get her your ownself '' . 
`` I might try it one of these days '' , Jack said wonderingly , thinking of Miss Langford . 
When they reached the school , a gang of boys and girls were already there playing `` crack the whip '' in front of the schoolhouse . 
Miss Langford , in a fresh white dress and low-heeled white sandals , without socks , was out there with them , trying to get them inside . 
`` Time for books '' , she yelled , jingling a little five-and-dime store bell in her right hand . 
`` Let's go inside '' . 
`` Oh , come on Miss Langford , play with us just onct '' , one of the little girls begged , smiling wistfully . 
`` No , not now '' , said the teacher . 
`` Maybe at dinner time . 
Come inside now '' . 
The children grudgingly stopped playing then and straggled into the schoolhouse . 
Jack watched Miss Langford all morning . 
He could think of nothing else save his mental image of her nude figure and what Charles had said that morning about Margaret Rider . 
Occasionally he would look across the aisle at Margaret , fourteen and demure in a fresh green organdy dress , sitting in the sixth-grade row , and he could hardly believe she would do what Charles had said she did . 
At noontime , remembering what the teacher had said about maybe playing with the kids , Jack stayed close to the schoolhouse while all the other big boys , except Charles , went off out the road to play ball . 
`` Why ain't you playin' ball '' ? 
He asked Charles suspiciously as they sat in the well-house shade , watching the girls congregate in front of the schoolhouse . 
`` Miss Langford , come out and play with us like you promised '' , several of the little girls called . 
`` I'd druther stay here and watch the girls '' , Charles grinned . 
`` Maybe some of 'em will fall down and we'll see up their dress '' . 
`` Maybe '' , Jack said idly , watching for Miss Langford . 
Presently she came out of the schoolhouse . 
When she appeared , two or three of the little girls jumped up and down , yelling , `` Goody , goody '' . 
`` Let's play with 'em '' , Jack said , rising from where he sat on the ground and dusting off his overall pants . 
`` O.K. '' Charles rose also , and the two of them moved over to join the girls . 
They played crack the whip a few minutes without mishap . 
Then when Miss Langford was on the end of the line of girls , Jack , in the middle of the line , gave an extra hard pull and the young teacher sprawled backwards , sitting down hard , her dress flying over her head . 
While she was struggling to get her skirt down and get on her feet again , Jack ran over , offered her his hand and said , `` Gosh , I'm sorry , Miss Langford . 
I didn't mean to pull so hard '' . 
`` That's all right '' , she said , tossing her head back to get the hair out of her eyes . 
`` It was my fault '' . 
With one hand she held her skirt down while she took Jack's extended hand with the other . 
When her hand touched his , fire went through Jack and he felt weak , but he managed somehow to get her on her feet . 
He thought she gave him that look with the hidden something in it as he let her hand go . 
`` Thank you '' , she said , dusting herself off . 
`` Will you play with us again , Miss Langford '' ? 
One of the little girls said . 
`` No more today . 
Maybe some other day '' . 
`` Oh , shucks '' , the girl said . 
`` I don't believe I'll play any more neither '' . 
`` Me neither '' , others said , and soon the game broke up , the children going off in pairs , in larger groups and alone . 
Jack walked off alone out the road in the searing midday sun , past Robert Allen's three-room , tarpapered house , toward the field where the other boys were playing ball , thinking of what he would do in order to make Miss Langford have him stay in after school -- because this was the day he had decided when he thought he saw the look in her eyes . 
When he came back to the schoolhouse , his mind was made up . 
He simply would not work his arithmetic problems when the teacher held his class . 
That should do it , he thought , because Miss Langford had said she was going to be strict about school work . 
He had considered throwing erasers or flipping paperwads at someone or pulling the hair of the girl sitting in front of him , but he couldn't take a chance on either of these possibilities : the teacher probably would make him stand face-to-wall in a corner instead of stay in after school . 
The only drawback now to the plan he'd decided on was that someone else might fail to do his work , too , and the teacher would have that person stay late along with Jack . 
`` But I've got to take a chance on it '' , he told himself desperately . 
To his surprise his plan worked perfectly . 
`` All right , if you can't do your arithmetic during school hours you can do it after school is out '' , Miss Langford said firmly , not smiling . 
`` You will stay here thirty minutes after the others go home this afternoon and work your problems '' . 
And so when the others stampeded out that afternoon Jack remained docilely in his seat near a window , looking out in what he hoped was a pitiable manner , while the other kids laughed and yelled in at him and made faces as they dispersed , going home . 
He scarcely saw them . 
His heart was pounding like a mighty dynamo and he was trying to think , his mind seeming to scream at him like a hurt or frightened child , `` How will I do it ? 
On the fringe of the amused throng of white onlookers stood a young woman of remarkable beauty and poise . 
She munched little ginger cakes called mulatto's belly and kept her green , somewhat hypnotic eyes fixed on a light-colored male who was prancing wildly with a 5-foot king snake wrapped around his bronze neck . 
The youth with the snake had a natural pride and joy of life which appealed to the woman . 
Lithe and muscular , he had well-molded features , and his light color told of the European ancestors who had been intimate with the slave women of his family . 
The haughty white girl turned to a distinguished , hawk-faced man standing at her side and murmured : `` Look at your watch , Col. Garvier . 
It is almost time for and calinda to begin '' . 
Col. Henri Garvier was one of New Orleans' most important and enlightened slave owners . 
He chuckled and gave the signal for the dance to start . 
The slaves ran gaily to the center of Congo Square and gathered around a sweaty youth they called Johnny No-Name . 
Johnny vigorously pounded two bleached steer bones against the gourd which served as his drum . 
He showed his gleaming tusks of teeth and bellowed incoherently , his brass earrings jangling discordantly as he shook and trembled in ecstasy . 
The drummer flogged the gourd with frantic intensity as the dancers began the calinda , a sensual gyration which had long been a favorite of voodoo practitioners and their disciples in the Louisiana slave compounds . 
The dance was of Haitian origin . 
The white girl with the penetrating green eyes sipped the lemonade handed to her by a handsome man of about 30 , who had coppery skin and beetling eyebrows . 
He was possessive in his manner and , though a slave , obviously was educated after a fashion and imitated the manners of his owners . 
He proudly wore the blue livery of her house , for the girl was Madame Delphine Lalaurie , wife of the prominent surgeon , Dr. Louis Lalaurie , who bore one of the South's oldest and most cherished names . 
Delphine was a pace-setter in high society . 
She was a top horsewoman and one of the city's most gracious hostesses . 
Although New Orleans was not to learn of it for a spell , she also was a sadist , a nymphomaniac and unobtrusively mad -- the perpetrator of some of the worst crimes against humanity ever committed on American soil . 
Madame Lalaurie gestured with her riding crop toward the 20-year-old youth who was stomping and writhing with the king snake still draped over his bare shoulders . 
The slender , handsome fellow was called Dandy Brandon by the other slaves . 
He was gifted with animal magnetism and a potent allure for women of any race . 
But Dandy had had little experience with girls on his master's plantation in Bayou St. John . 
Shy , actually , he avoided feminine overtures and seemed truly ignorant of the girls' desires when they sought to make liaisons with him in the open fields , in carriages and in boathouses . 
This young slave was therefore quite unprepared when Delphine Lalaurie signaled that she wanted him to draw near . 
The woman eyed the youth with the avidity a coin collector might display toward a rare doubloon which is not yet in his collection . 
`` What is your name , boy ? 
Come a bit closer . 
I won't bite , you know '' . 
He gaped at Madame Lalaurie and sniffed the Paris perfume which emanated from her . 
Then he smiled shyly . 
`` My name is Dandy Brandon , missy . 
I belong to Master Alexander Prieur '' . 
She said with intense feeling : `` Come near , let me feel your arms . 
You look quite strong and healthy to me , Dandy '' . 
Mrs. Lalaurie impatiently propelled the slave toward her waiting carriage . 
Lifting her skirts , she climbed in , never relinquishing her grip on his arm . 
The woman seemed utterly unafraid of the snake which coiled on the floor in a torpor . 
Once inside the luxuriosly-upholstered landau , she drew the curtains and proceeded to give the startled youth the kind of physical examination usually reserved for army inductees . 
Satisfied at last , and after a few amorous gambits on her part which convinced Delphine that Dandy was capable of learning new arts , she opened the window and called to her liveried driver . 
This was the big man with the proprietory air and the beetling , shaggy eyebrows . 
`` Aristide ! 
I want you to find Monsieur Prieur at once and give him this money for the boy's purchase . 
There's $600 in gold in this chamois sack . 
If the old fool argues about the price , tell him I shall order my husband not to treat him as a patient any longer . 
Prieur has gout and depends on Louis' pills and bleedings . 
Besides , he owns 300 slaves . 
One less shouldn't matter to him '' . 
Aristide Devol , the sardonic manservant who had been brought in chains years before from his native Sierra Leone , smiled thinly and touched his well-brushed beaver hat . 
His bold eyes raked the woman , and a perceptive spectator might sense that there was more to their relationship than that of slave to owner . 
`` Another youth , Madame '' ? 
The coachman said softly . 
`` This one is a tender chicken , oui ? 
Such delicate beauty , such fine flesh . 
It will rip and shred easily for Madame '' . 
`` Be quiet , Devol ! 
You are forgetting your place '' . 
The tall coachman walked off briskly in search of Alexander Prieur . 
Delphine Lalaurie took the reins in her gloved hands and drove Dandy Brandon -- cowering in the back seat of the carriage -- to her mansion at 677 Perdido Street . 
Dr. Louis Lalaurie stood on the veranda at the head of the driveway and watched his carriage as it approached the pillared mansion . 
Dandy , curiosity overcoming his apprehensions , peered out at the doctor from the window of the vehicle . 
He saw a pint-sized man with a graying spade beard and an unusually large head . 
Dr. Lalaurie wore a maroon smoking jacket , and his myopic eyes were blurry and glistened behind thick octagonal lenses . 
He was about 50 years old . 
`` Another young man , my dear ? 
Really , you are most indiscreet to drive him here yourself '' , he said , frowning with displeasure . 
Delphine presented her cheek for a kiss , and the physician pecked it like a timid rooster . 
`` Dandy is to be our house guest , Louis . 
I want the room in the attic prepared for him He is a most unusual lad , quite precocious in many ways . 
He deserves a better life than just rotting away on the Prieur plantation '' . 
`` Quite so , my dear . 
His room will be ready shortly '' . 
The physician led the horses to the stable after a cursory glance at the cringing slave . 
Had Dandy been older or wiser , instinct might have warned him that he would be well advised to flee from the Lalauries' tender care if he valued his life . 
But he liked the smell of Delphine's perfume . 
Besides , her endearments and caresses in the carriage had been new and stirring experiences to the simple youth . 
Also , he was weary of plantation drudgery and monotony . 
So Dandy Brandon trustingly entered the house with Delphine Lalaurie and trudged up the rear steps to the attic room which was to be his new home . 
Airless and dingy though it was , the attic represented luxury to a slave who had led a wretched life with six brothers and sisters and assorted relatives in a shanty at Bayou St. John . 
He bounced exuberantly on the sagging bed and was even more delighted when Madame Lalaurie -- after closing the door -- showed the slave that the bed was designed for something other than slumber . 
It was just as well that the ignorant Dandy enjoyed himself to the hilt that first evening , for the room was to become his prison cell . 
When he finally left the sinister mansion on Perdido Street , he was carried out in a coroner's basket . 
Just six weeks after Dandy Brandon's arrival at the mansion , the little surgeon and his svelte young wife gave their annual open house and ball , to which only New Orleans' oldest and wealthiest families were invited . 
A stringed orchestra played softly behind the potted palms , and Delphine circulated graciously among her guests , chatting airily of the forthcoming races , the latest fashions from Paris , and Louisiana politics . 
Suddenly there was a commotion upstairs , a despairing boyish shriek , and the strains of the waltz faltered and died as the musicians and guests gaped at an apparition descending the marble staircase . 
It was Dandy Brandon , clad only in a bloody loincloth , emaciated and quaking as if the devil were breathing hard on him . 
The lad's once superb body was a mass of scars and welts . 
His pinched face showed the ravages of malnutrition . 
Feebly he pointed an accusing finger at Madame Lalaurie and shouted : `` Evil woman ! 
You did this you like to hurt to beat people I want to go home '' . 
These were the last words he ever uttered . 
Convulsively , he spat up some blood and collapsed into the arms of Senator Gaston Berche , crimsoning the frilly shirt and waistcoat the politician wore . 
Dr. Louis Lalaurie examined the inert form of the slave on the parquet dance floor and pronounced him dead . 
The ball broke up in confusion . 
Guests stared with horror at Madame Lalaurie and made speedy departures . 
Delphine stood like stone , her eyes alive with hate as she looked down at the sheeted corpse . 
But at the coroner's inquest Delphine told a forthright story . 
`` I saw the boy Dandy at the Congo Square festivities and felt sorry for him . 
It was our hope to educate him and to give him his freedom when the right time came , for he was a bright and friendly youth who seemed worthy of our interest . 
After I paid Monsieur Prieur for Dandy , I brought him home , but he was ill at ease and ran away the same night . 
How he returned in such a ghastly condition , or why , I cannot say . 
Dr. Lalaurie and I didn't even know he was in the house until the night of our ball when he came down the stairs '' . 
She daubed at her swimming eyes with a lacy handkerchief and said with obvious emotion : `` That poor boy ! 
He must have fallen in with evil companions , for he was a simple youth and quite trusting and inexperienced . 
Ruffians must have robbed and beaten him before bringing him back to our house to die . 
Such a pitiful end '' ! 
Though the slave's dying words about the woman troubled the coroner's panel , Dandy's accusation was adjudged an aberration by the jury and disregarded . 
The Lalauries were at the top rung of the social ladder , and even a jury didn't feel privileged to doubt the veracity of so illustrious a lady . 
Moreover , runaway slaves frequently got into serious trouble in New Orleans' dives . 
So the verdict was `` death at the hands of a person or persons unknown '' , and the elite of the city , accepting Delphine's testimony , welcomed her and the doctor back into the fold . 
Once again life went its serene way -- soirees , fox hunts , balls and dinners . 
The excitement over Brandon's bizarre death abated and Madame Lalaurie's stock soared when she resumed her self-imposed chores of visiting the poor and bringing cakes and comfort to destitute patients in the county hospital . 
Then , on July 2 , there occurred another incident which set tongues to wagging at a furious clip . 
Mrs. Victor Dominique , socially prominent and a neighbor of the Lalauries , chanced to glance out of her parlor window at dusk one evening and beheld an amazing sight . 
The manservant Devol and his mistress , Delphine Lalaurie , were pursuing a young girl -- an octoroon of cameo-like beauty -- across the front lawn of the Lalaurie mansion . 
The girl was not more than 16 . 
She was nude to the waist and her tumbled abundance of black hair did not conceal the knife slashes on her back . 
The bleeding girl was tiring fast ; ; the coachman and Delphine were gaining on her as she raced down Perdido Street . 
The fugitive cried out in an oddly sibilant voice : `` Help me , somebody ! 
They have pulled out all my teeth and now she will carve out my tongue with her hacksaw ! 
`` Bastards '' , he would say , `` all I did was put a beat to that Vivaldi stuff , and the first chair clobbered me '' ! 
Since then , and since the pure grain had gotten him divorced from every decent -- and even indecent -- group from Greenwich Village to the Embarcadero , he had become a sucker-rolling freight-jumper . 
`` There ain't nothin' faster , or lonelier , or more direct than a cannonball freight when you wanna go someplace '' , Feathertop would say . 
`` The accommodations may not be the poshest , but man ! 
There ain't nobody askin' for your ticket stub , neither '' . 
He had been conning the freights for a long , long time now . 
Ever since the hooch , and the trouble with the Quartet , and Midge and the child . 
Ever since all that . 
It had been a very long time that had no form and no end . 
He was -- as he told himself in the vernacular of a trade no longer his own -- riding the dark train out . 
Out and out and never to return again . 
Till one day the last freight had been jumped , the last pint had been killed , the last beat had been rapped . 
That was the day it ended . 
The freight car was cold , early in the morning . 
He was pressed far back into the corner of the car on his hay sacks , the rattling and tinning of the wheels on the rails almost covering the sound of his ocarina . 
He held his elbows away from his body , and the little sweet potato trilled neatly and sweetly as he tickled its tune-belly . 
The train slowed at a road crossing , and the big door slid open ; ; at first gratingly , caught by grains of corn -- then with a clash into its slot . 
The boy lifted the girl by the waist and set her on the lip of the floor . 
She pulled her legs up under her , to rise , her full peasant skirt drawing up her thighs , and Feathertop's music pfffted away . 
`` Now that is a very nice , a very nice '' , he murmured to himself , back in his corner . 
A little thing , but the right twist for the action that counted . 
Hot , that was the word , hot ! 
Hair like a morning-frightened sparrow's wings , with the sun shining down over them . 
A poet , yet ! 
His thoughts for the swanlike neck , the full , high breasts , the slim waist , and the long legs were less than poetic , however . 
Zingggg-O ! 
Then the boy straight-armed himself up , twisting at the last moment so he landed sitting . 
He was less to see , but Feathertop took him in , too , just to keep the records straight . 
Curly hair , high cheekbones , wide gnomelike mouth , a pair of drummer's blocky hands , and a body that said well , maybe I can wrestle you for ten minutes -- but then I'm finished . 
`` We made it , Cappy '' , the chick said . 
`` Yeah , seems so , don't it '' , the boy laughed , hugging her close . 
`` Ah-ah '' ! 
Feathertop interrupted , standing up , brushing the pig offal from his dirty pants . 
`` None of that . 
We run a respectable house here '' . 
They whirled and saw him , standing there dim in the slatted light from the boarded freight wall . 
He was big , and filthy , and his toes stuck out of the flapping tops of his shoes . 
He held the black plastic kazoo lightly . 
`` Come sit '' , said Feathertop , motioning them toward him . 
`` That crap is softer over here '' . 
The girl smiled , and started forward . 
The boy yanked her back hard , tugging her off her feet , and gathered her into the crook of his arm . 
`` Now stay with me , Kitty '' , he snapped irritably . 
`` I vowed to take care of you -- and that's what I'm gonna do . 
We don't know this guy '' . 
`` Oooo , square bit '' , Feathertop screwed his face up . 
This guy was strictly from Outsville . 
But nowhere ! 
`` What is with this vow jazz '' ? 
Feathertop inquired , lounging against the freight's vibrating wall . 
`` We -- we eloped '' , Cappy said . 
His head came up and he said it defiantly . 
`` Well , congratulations '' . 
Feathertop made an elaborate motion with his hand . 
These two were going to be easy pickins . 
They couldn't have much dough , but then none of the freight-bums Feathertop rolled had much . 
And besides , the chick had a little something the others didn't have . 
That was gonna be fun collecting ! 
But not just yet . 
Feathertop was a connoisseur . 
He liked to savor his meat before he tasted it . 
`` Come sit '' , he repeated , motioning to the piled hay bags , over the pig leavings . 
`` I'm just a poor ex-jazz man , name of -- uh -- Boyd Smith '' . 
He grinned at them wolfishly . 
`` That ain't your name , Mister '' , the boy accused . 
`` And you know -- you're right '' ! 
Feathertop aimed a finger at him . 
`` Oh , come on , Cappy '' , the girl chided . 
`` He's okay . 
He's a nice guy '' . 
She started to move toward the hay bags , dragging the reluctant Cappy behind her . 
Feathertop watched the smooth scissoring of her slim , trim legs as she walked to the bags , and tucked them beneath her , smoothing the skirt out in a wide circle . 
He cleared his throat ; ; it had been a long , hot while since he'd seen anything as nice as this within grabbin' distance . 
He had it all doped , of course . 
Slug the kid , grab his dough -- at least enough to get to Philadelphia -- and then have a rockin' ball with the doll . 
Hmm -- diddle ! 
`` Where'd you come from , Mr. -- uh -- Mr. Smith '' ? 
Kitty inquired politely . 
`` Where from '' ? 
He mused . 
`` Out . 
I been riding train for a ways now '' . 
They lapsed into silence , and the freight wallowed up a hill , scooted down the other side , shaking and clanking to itself . 
After a while , Kitty murmured something to Cappy , and he held her close , answering , `` We'll just have to wait till we pull into Philly , honey '' . 
`` What's the matter , she wanna go the bathroom '' ? 
Ernie found it immensely funny . 
The boy scowled at him , and the girl looked shocked . 
`` No ! 
Certainly not , I mean , no that isn't what I said '' ! 
She snapped at him . 
`` I only said I was hungry . 
We haven't had anything to eat all day '' . 
Joviality suffused Feathertop Ernie Cargill's voice as he reached behind him , pulling out a battered carpet bag , with leather handles . 
`` Whyn't ya say so , fellow travelers ! 
Why , we got dinner right here . 
C'mon , buddy , help me set up the kitchen and we'll have food in a minute or two '' . 
Cappy looked wary , but he moved off the floorboards and followed the dirty ex-musician to the center of the refuse-littered boxcar . 
Ernie crouched and opened the carpet bag . 
He took out a small packet filled with bits of charcoal , a deep pot of thin metal , some sheets of newspaper , a book of matches and a wrinkled and many-times folded piece of tin foil with holes in it . 
He put the charcoal in the pot , lit the paper with the matches , and carefully stretched the tin foil across the top of the pot . 
`` A charcoal pit , man '' , he said , indicating the slightly-smoking makeshift brazier . 
`` Fan it '' , he told Cappy , handing him a sheet of newspaper . 
`` Yeah , but what're we gonna eat ? 
Charcoal '' ? 
`` Fella '' , Ernie waggled a dirty finger at the younger man , `` you try my ever-lovin' patience '' . 
He reached once more into the carpet bag and brought up a package of wieners . 
`` Hot dogs , man . 
Not the greatest , but they stick to your belly insides '' . 
He ripped down the cellophane carefully , and laid three dogs on the tin foil . 
Almost immediately they began to sizzle . 
He looked up and grinned . 
`` A Kroger's self-serve '' , he explained . 
`` I self-served '' . 
When they had licked the last of the wieners' taste from their fingers , they settled back , and Cappy offered Ernie a cigarette . 
Nice kid , Ernie thought , too bad . 
`` How come you're riding the rods , kids like you '' ? 
Ernie asked . 
Cappy looked down at his wide hands , and did not reply . 
But surprisingly , Kitty's face came up and she said , `` My father . 
He didn't want us to get married . 
So we ran away '' . 
`` Why didn't he want you to get hitched '' ? 
This time even she did not answer . 
She looked down at her hands , too . 
After a few seconds , she said , `` Dad didn't like Cappy . 
It was my fault '' . 
Cappy's head came around sharply . 
`` Your fault , hell ! 
It was all my fault . 
If I'd been careful it never woulda '' -- he stopped abruptly . 
Ernie's eyebrows went up . 
`` What's the matter '' ? 
The girl still did not raise her eyes , but she added simply , `` I'm pregnant '' . 
Cappy raged at himself . 
`` Oh he was stupid , her old man ! 
You never heard nothin' like it : Kitty's gonna go have an abortion , and Kitty's gonna go away to a convent , and Kitty's this and Kitty's that like he was nuts or somethin' , y'know '' ? 
Ernie nodded . 
This was a slightly different matter . 
He remembered Midge , and the child . 
But that had been a time before all this , a time he didn't think about . 
A time before the white lightning and the bumming had turned him inside out . 
But these kids weren't like him . 
Oh crap ! 
He thought , Pull out of it , old son . 
These are just another couple of characters to roll . 
What they got , you get . 
Now forget all this other . 
`` Wanna drink '' ? 
Ernie offered , taking the pint of sweet lucy from his jacket pocket . 
`` Yeah . 
Now that you offer '' . 
The answer came from the open door of the boxcar . 
From the man who had leaped in from the high bank outside , as the train had slowed on the grade . 
Ernie stared at the man . 
He was big . 
Real big , with shoulders out to here , and hair all over him like a grizzly . 
Road gang , Ernie thought . 
`` You gonna give me a drink , fella '' ? 
The big man asked again , taking a step into the boxcar . 
Ernie hesitated a moment . 
This character could break him in half . 
`` Sure '' , he said , and lifted the pint to his own lips . 
He guzzled down three-quarters of the strong home-blend and proffered the remainder . 
The man stalked toward them , his big boots heavy on the wooden flooring . 
He took the bottle with undue belligerence , and making sucking noises with his thick lips , drained it completely . 
He threw his head back , closed his eyes , and belched ferociously . 
He belched again , and opening his eyes , threw the bottle out the open door . 
`` Well , now '' , he said , and reached into his pocket . 
`` I didn't know I was gonna have company in this car '' . 
`` We're going to Philadelphia '' , Kitty said , pulling her skirt down around her legs all the more . 
`` No , I don't think so '' , said the big man , and it was the final clincher for Ernie . 
He had suspected this guy was trouble , and now he was sure of it . 
`` Maybe you and me will , girlie , but these two ain't goin' nowhere '' . 
He advanced on them , and abruptly there was a shocked electricity in the car . 
Ernie was screaming inside himself : No , damn you , you ain't gonna take my meal ticket away from me ! 
The newcomer stalked toward them , and Kitty shied back , her hand to her mouth . 
Her scream split up the silence of the car , accompanied by the rattling of the freight , and then Cappy came off the floor , his legs driving him hard . 
The kid hit the bigger man with an audible thwump ! 
And carried him backward in a footballer's tackle . 
They went down in a heap and for a long minute there was nothing to see but flailing arms and legs . 
The kid showed for an instant , and his arm was cocked back . 
The fist went down into the pile of flesh , and Ernie heard the bigger man's deeper voice go , `` Aaawww '' ! 
Then they were tumbling again , and the big man reached into the same pocket he had gone for earlier , and came up with a vicious switchblade . 
He held the knife aloft an instant -- an instant enough to press the stud . 
The blade came out with a snick ! 
He fisted the knife overhand , and drew back to plunge it into the kid's throat . 
Kitty screamed insanely and her face was white . 
She grabbed at Feathertop's sleeve and shrieked , `` Help him ! 
Help him ! 
Do something '' ! 
They neither liked nor disliked the Old Man . 
To them he could have been the broken bell in the church tower which rang before and after Mass , and at noon , and at six each evening -- its tone , repetitive , monotonous , never breaking the boredom of the streets . 
The Old Man was unimportant . 
Yet if he were not there , they would have missed him , as they would have missed the sounds of bees buzzing against the screen door in early June ; ; or the smell of thick tomato paste -- the ripe smell that was both sweet and sour -- rising up from aluminum trays wrapped in fly-dotted cheesecloth . 
Or the surging whirling sounds of bats at night , when their black bodies dived into the blackness above and below the amber street lights . 
Or the bay of female dogs in heat . 
They never called him by name , although he had one . 
Filippo Rossi , that's what he was called in the old country ; ; but here he was just Signore or the Old Man . 
But this was not unusual , because youth in these quarters was always pushed at a distance from its elders . 
Youth obeyed when commanded . 
It went to church on Sunday and one Saturday a month went to confession . 
But youth asked nothing of its parents -- not a touch of the hand or a kiss given in passing . 
The only thing unusual about the Old Man had long since happened . 
But the past was dead here as the present was dead . 
Once the Old Man had had a wife . 
And once she , too , ignored him . 
With a tiny fur-piece wrapped around her shoulders , she wiggled her satin-covered buttocks down the street before him and didn't stop . 
In one hand she clutched a hundred dollar bill and in the other a straw suitcase . 
The way she strutted down the street , the Old Man would have been blind not to have noticed both . 
Without looking at him , without looking at anything except Drexel Street directly in front of her , she climbed up into one of those orange streetcars , rode away in it , and never came back . 
`` But she shouldn't have come here in the first place '' , the women had said . 
`` No , no . 
Not that one . 
She thought she was bigger than we are because she came from Torino '' . 
`` Eh , Torino ! 
She gave herself fancy airs ! 
Just because she had a part on the stage in the old country , she thought she could carry her head higher than ours '' . 
They had slapped their thighs . 
`` It's not for making pretty speeches about Dante those actresses get paid so good '' . 
`` Henh '' ! 
Calloused fingers , caressed only by the smoothness of polished rosaries , had swayed excitedly beneath puckered chins where tiny black hairs sprouted , never to be tweezed away . 
Mauve-colored mouths that had never known anything sweeter than the taste of new wine and the passion of man's tongue had not smiled , but had condemned again and again . 
`` Puttana '' ! 
But if the Old Man even thought about his wife now , nobody cared a fig . 
It was enough for people to know that at one time he had looked down the street at the fleshy suppleness of a woman he had consumed -- watching her become thinner and thinner in the distance , as thin as the seams on her stockings , and still thinner . 
His voice had not commanded her to stop . 
It had not questioned why . 
The women said they had seen him wave an exhausted farewell ; ; but he might have been shooing away the fleas that hopped from his yellow dog onto him . 
( He was never without that dog . 
) And his eyes -- those miniature sundials of variegated yellow -- had not altered their expression or direction . 
The Old Man's very soul could have left him and flown down that street , but he wouldn't have had anyone know it . 
Perhaps he had known then where that hundred dollar bill had come from and where it was taking his wife . 
But when he called for his withered , wrinkled sister Rose to care for him and the children , had he guessed that all he would remember of his woman was the memory of her climbing into that streetcar ? 
There seemed to be a contemptuous purpose in the way he sat there with his eyes glued to Drexel Street and his back in opposition to the church behind him . 
For all he saw or cared to see , this could have been a town in Italy , not the outskirts of Philadelphia . 
It could have been Bari or Chieti for the way it smelled . 
What did it matter to him that the park at the foot of Ash Road stretched beneath elevated trains that roared from the stucco station into the city's center at half-hour intervals ? 
Or that the tiny creek spun its silent course toward the Schuylkill ? 
This place was hatred to him , just as hatred was his only companion in his aloneness . 
To him they were one and the same . 
Sameness for the Old Man was framed in by a wall of ginkgo trees which divided these quarters from the city . 
Sameness lined the streets with two-story houses the color of ash . 
It slashed the sloping manure-scented lawns with concrete steps which climbed upward to white wooden porches . 
It swayed with the wicker swings and screeched with the rusted hinges of screen doors . 
Even the stable-garage , which housed nothing now but the scent of rot , had a lawn before it . 
And the coffee shop on Drexel Street , where the men spent their evenings and Sundays playing cards , had a rose hedge beneath its window . 
The hedge reeked of coffee dregs thrown against it . 
Only one house on the street had no lawn before it . 
It squatted low and square upon the sidewalk with a heavy iron grating supporting a glass facade . 
That was Bartoli's shop . 
Above it , from a second-story showroom , wooden angels surveyed the neighborhood . 
Did the Old Man remember them there ? 
Yet everywhere else sameness was stucco and wood in square blocks -- like fortresses perched against the slant of the hill , rising with the hill to the top where the church was and beyond that to the cemetery . 
Only paved alleyways tunneled through the walls of those fortresses into the mysterious core of intimacy behind the houses where backyards owned no fences , where one man's property blended with the next to form courtyards in which no one knew privacy . 
Love and hatred and fear were one here , shaded only by fig trees and grape vines . 
And the forked tongue of gossip licked its sinister way from back porch to back porch . 
The Old Man silently fed upon these streets . 
They kept him alive , waiting . 
Waiting for what and for whom , only he could tell and would not . 
It was as though he had made a pact with the devil himself , but it was not yet time to pay the price . 
He was holding out for something . 
He was determined to hold out . 
The Old Man's son threw himself down , belly first , upon a concrete step , taking in the coolness of it , and dreaming of the day he would be rich . 
At fifteen he didn't care that he had no mother , that he couldn't remember her face or her touch ; ; neither did he care that Aunt Rose provided for him . 
He was named Pompeii as a tribute to his heritage , and he couldn't have cared less about that either . 
To him life was a restless boredom that began with the rising sun and ended only with sleep . 
When he would be a man , he would be a rich man . 
He would not be like the `` rich Americans '' who lived in white-columned houses on the other side of the park . 
He would not ride the eight-thirty local to the city each morning . 
He would not carry a brief case . 
Nor would he work at all . 
He would square his shoulders and carry a cane before each step . 
He would sit inside the coffee shop and pound a gloved fist upon the table and a girl would hear him and come running , bowing with her running , calling out in her bowing , `` At your service '' . 
He would order her to bring coffee , and would take from his vest pocket a thin black pipe which he would stuff -- he would not remove his gloves -- and light and smoke . 
He could do that when he would be a man . 
`` Hey , Laura '' ! 
He called to his sister on the porch above the steps . 
She was only ten months older than he . 
`` Laura , what would you say if I smoked a pipe '' ? 
Laura did not answer him . 
She leaned unconcerned against the broken porch fence , brushing and drying her wet , gilded hair in the sun . 
One lithe leg straddled the railing and swung loosely before the creaking , torn pales . 
Her tanned foot , whose arch swept high and white , pointed artfully toward tapering toes -- toes like fingers , whose tips glowed white . 
All the while she sat there , her sinewy arms swirled before her chest . 
Her face showed no sign of having heard Pompeii . 
It was a face that had lost its childlike softness and was beginning to fold within its fragile features a harshness that belied the lyric lines of its contours . 
The eyes , blue and always somewhat downcast , possessed a sullen quality . 
Even though the boy could not see them , he knew they were clouded by distance . 
He was never sure they fully took him in . 
Pompeii called again , `` Laura '' ! 
But the only answer that reached him was the screeching of the porch rail from her leg moving against it . 
`` She's in a mood '' , he thought `` There's not a month she doesn't get herself in a mood '' . 
Well , what did that matter when the sun was shining and there were dreams to dream about ? 
And as for his pipe , if he wanted to smoke one , nobody would stop him . 
Not even Laura . 
Suddenly he was interrupted in his daydreaming by a warm wetness lapping against his chin , and his eyes opened wide and long at the sight of a goat's claret tongue , feasting against the salt taste of him . 
Above the tongue , an aged yellow eye , sallow and time-cast , encrusted within a sphere of marbleized pink skin , stared unfalteringly at him . 
`` Christ sake , goat , git '' ! 
But the goat would not . 
`` You're boiling milk , ain't you '' ? 
Soothing it with his hand , knowing the whiskered jowls and the swollen smoothness of teats that wrinkled expectantly to his touch . 
Pompeii rolled over . 
His head undulated gradually , covering space , to come straining beneath the taut belly within the warmth of those teats . 
With his mouth opened wide , he squirted the warm white milk against the roof of his mouth and his tongue savored the light , earthy taste of it . 
The boy's fingers and mouth operated with the skilled unity of a bagpipe player , pressing and pulling , delighting in what he did . 
Above him slid the evasive shadow of a storm cloud . 
Its form was a heavy figure in a fluttering soutane . 
But the boy could see only the goat's belly . 
The Old Man near the corner let the shadow pass over him , sensing something portentous in it . 
He knew it was there , knew also what it was about , but he wouldn't raise a finger except to smooth his yellow dog's back . 
There would be time enough , perhaps the Old Man reassured himself , to pay the devil his due . 
Time enough to give up his soul . 
In the meantime , six sandals , stained an ocher , the same color as Pompeii's shaved hair , edged up close to him . 
The clapping they made on the concrete interrupted him in the ecstatic pleasure he knew , so that he quickly released his hold on the goat and pretended to be examining its haunches for ticks . 
He knew at a glance that the biggest sandals belonged to Niobe , the neatest ones to Concetta , and the laced ones to Romeo , Concetta's idiot brother . 
Pompeii expected Romeo's small body to sink closer and closer to the ground . 
He expected Concetta's thin hand to reach down to grasp the boy , and her shrill , impetuous voice to sound against the rotundity of his disfigured flesh that was never sure of hearing anything . 
People came in and out all evening to see the baby and hold it . 
The room filled with smoke , and Maggie's head throbbed with excitement and fatigue , but Stuart had such a happy , earnest look of proud possession on his face that Maggie couldn't bear to do anything to quench it . 
Little Anne rapidly outdistanced her mother in recovery . 
In two months she became a fat highly social baby , with a fuzz of flaxen hair all over her head . 
She stopped flying into rages and started digesting her food ; ; she developed a peaches and cream complexion and a sunny disposition , and she asked for nothing more of life than that she be kept dry and comfortable and fed huge amounts of food at stated intervals and be carried to where she could watch activity going on around her . 
She was so heavy that Maggie's arms shook from lifting her and taking care of her . 
Maggie couldn't seem to get her strength back or catch up with herself with all she had to do : there was the big basket of clothes to be coaxed through the rackety old washer and lugged out and lugged back ; ; there was the daily round of household chores in which Maggie insisted on participating . 
Worry had a great deal to do with it ; ; Stuart had been laid off at the produce company and had to go back to sitting in his father's office , taking what salary his father could hand out to him . 
Mr. Clifton would have preferred death and bankruptcy to having his son stay with his wife's people without contributing to his and his family's upkeep , and besides that there were the things that had to be bought for the baby , milk and orange juice and vitamins and soap , just plain soap . 
Maggie and Stuart pored over figures every night , trying to find how they could squeeze out a few pennies more . 
In desperation Maggie consulted Eugenia one afternoon : `` Do you think you could find me something I could do here at home to make some money , so I could still watch the baby and do the rest of the things '' ? 
`` It seems to me you have enough to do as it is '' , Eugenia said . 
She had been watching Maggie go from the washing machine to the baby to the stove and back again . 
`` I have plenty of odd moments when I could be doing something '' , Maggie said . 
`` It would make me feel a lot better , but the Woman's Exchange isn't taking baked goods any more and I can't leave the baby with Grandma because she isn't strong enough and the baby's too young to be put in a nursery '' . 
`` I should think so '' , Eugenia said . 
`` For one thing you can stop keeping that child in starched dresses and changed from the skin out nineteen times a day '' . 
`` She's so beautiful , and I do like to keep her looking nice '' . 
Maggie said . 
She picked up the baby and nuzzled her fat warm little neck . 
`` She'll be just as beautiful in something that doesn't have to be ironed '' , Eugenia said . 
`` Evadna Mae Evans said she didn't put a thing on her child but a flannel wrapper until it was nine months old '' . 
`` Evadna Mae Evans got all her baby clothes from Best's Liliputian Bazaar in New York , and I'm sick and tired of hearing about Evadna Mae Evans '' . 
`` Well now , Maggie , you don't have to snap at me '' , Eugenia said . 
`` I'm just thinking of a way for you to be sensible '' . 
`` I'm sorry . 
I do seem to snap at everybody these days , but I would like to think of a way to make a little extra money '' . 
`` Well , let's see . 
Let's make a list of your assets '' . 
Maggie started laughing , and she laughed so hard she couldn't stop , and she kept on laughing while she lugged the clothes out to the yard to hang them up while the sun was still shining . 
When she came back Eugenia was sitting at the kitchen table with a pencil and envelope jotting down words and figures . 
`` I have here that you could run a nursery of your own for working mothers '' , Eugenia said . 
`` We could put up cribs on the second floor sleeping porch and turn the front bedroom into a playroom where it's nice and sunny , but of course it would entail quite a bit of running up and down stairs and Chris said you were to be careful about that '' . 
`` What else '' ? 
`` You might set up a dress shop in the living room '' . 
`` Every woman in the block has tried that '' . 
`` What about a tea room , then ? 
You could set up tables in the front room and serve salads and your baked beans and brown bread and Grandma could dress like a gypsy and tell fortunes '' . 
`` It's too elaborate . 
And Grandma isn't strong enough to take on something like that , and to tell you the truth neither am I '' . 
Eugenia sighed . 
She said , `` Well , those are the really interesting things , but if you don't like any of those I can turn over some of my extra typing jobs to you , if you think you can type well enough '' . 
`` Oh , I'm sure I could do that '' , Maggie said . 
`` But it really wouldn't be fair , taking your jobs away from you '' . 
`` Don't worry , I can get plenty more '' , Eugenia said , wondering where in the world she could . 
Maggie was looking much happier already , clearing a space on the table and chattering about how she could put up a typewriter right there , and be brushing up on her typing so Eugenia wouldn't be ashamed of it . 
`` And then whenever I have a minute I can be working at it , and keep an eye on the baby and the stove at the same time . 
And I can go back to my contests and be thinking while I'm doing the washing '' . 
`` What are you going to do with your feet so you don't waste anything '' ? 
Maggie laughed . 
She said , `` Oh Eugenia , I wish '' `` What '' ? 
`` I wish I had three wishes '' , Maggie said . 
`` All of them for you '' . 
It grew bitterly cold toward the end of November , contributing to the miseries of countless numbers of people . 
The temperature dropped to twenty below at night and stood at zero during the days . 
The cold settled like a tangible pall over the Mile High City , locking it in an icy grip that harshened its outlines and altered its physical appearance ; ; it had a look of grim stark realism , resembling other cities whose habitual climate was cold , instead of the sprawling bumptious open-handed greedy Western city basking in eternal sunshine at the foot of mountains stored with endless riches and resources . 
The jobless huddled in the streets outside of employment offices , outside newspaper buildings , in parks , in relief lines , outside government agencies . 
There weren't facilities to take care of them ; ; there never had been a need felt for such facilities . 
That kind of poverty was regarded as the exclusive property of the East , which created depressions with their stock markets and their congested populations and their greedy centralization of industries , protected by discriminatory freight rates . 
The East was popularly supposed to have got the country into war and into depression , dragging the west along ; ; and now the East was creating government agencies for which the West doubtless would have to pay . 
The government offices were being opened but they weren't being opened fast enough and meanwhile the cold penetrated everything . 
Shivering , people talked and argued ; ; all this government spending would have to be paid for somehow , but on the other hand desperate circumstances called for desperate remedies and something had to be done . 
Something had to be done ; ; it was the theme song of millions of American people , their personal problems no less urgent than those of the government . 
Something had to be done . 
The Abernathys said it to each other a dozen times a day . 
Something had to be done about the furnace , the fuel bills , the washing machine , the doctor and dentist bills , about making money stretch for food , for the mortgage , for taxes , for shoes , for half soles , for overshoes , for clothes , for the new leaks in the roof , for gas and light bills ; ; about keeping warm , about keeping well , about meeting the minor emergencies that came up once , twice , fifty times a day . 
Just dropping the baby's bottle and breaking it became a catastrophe , and Stuart wore out his shoes so fast that he was termed a major disaster . 
The Abernathy furnace consumed fuel like a giant ravenous maw that had to be appeased by hurling tons of coal into its evil red depths , and no matter how much coal they put in the house remained cold . 
Cold came in the innumerable cracks that seemed to have sprung up , under doors , around loosened window frames , from the sleeping porches , the attic , from the widened cracks between shingles on the roof . 
Presently they had to give up running the furnace at full capacity and depend on the old coal range in the kitchen , which had never been removed when the new gas range was installed , and the fireplaces and an electric heater in Grandma's room . 
It was so cold and so wretched that a sort of desperate gaiety infected all of them , like people stormbound or shipwrecked or caught in some other freak of circumstance so that time stood still and minor anxieties fell away and the only important thing was to cling together and survive . 
The pipes burst and they all laughed and stood in ice water to their ankles while they swabbed the bathrooms . 
They lived mainly in the kitchen ; ; they moved Maggie's bed and the baby's basket there , and the rest of them undressed by the stove and ran groaning and shivering to the upper polar regions and plunged into icy beds . 
Grandma said it was just like the early mining camp days , and it was the way people ought to live , only she was getting too old to take the pleasure from it that she used to . 
`` You said a mouthful '' , Eugenia said grimly . 
Eugenia hated being cold worse than anything , and she was beginning to find the joys of poverty wearing thin . 
She said to Maggie that it was one thing to meet an emergency and another to wallow in it , and it was beginning to look at if this one was going to last forever . 
`` Plenty of people are poor all their lives '' . 
`` Plenty of people haven't our brains and talent '' . 
`` I know you when you start talking about brains and talent '' , Maggie said . 
`` You're working up to something , and if you don't watch out you'll ruin your whole life one of these days just to prove that the Abernathy family is superior to everything , even a depression '' . 
`` The only thing that worries me is how I'm going to prove it '' , Eugenia said . 
They begged Grandma to let them put a bed in the kitchen for her , but Grandma said she was getting too old to sleep in strange beds and be seen with her teeth out , and that she hoped to die in privacy like a Christian and if the Lord willed it to be of pneumonia than it would have to be that way . 
She didn't want to be the only one with a stove in her room , especially as her life span was nearly run out anyway , and she insisted that Hope have the heater . 
Hope wouldn't hear of it , and she took the heater back to Grandma's room , and Grandma took it back to Hope's room , and the two of them dragged it back and forth until Grandma tipped it over and almost set her bedspread on fire . 
She said that proved she wasn't to be trusted with a fire in her room , and she could be burned to a crisp without anybody knowing it . 
Eugenia suspected her of deliberately overturning the heater because she was getting tired of dragging it back and forth and still wanted her own way , but Hope said if Grandma wouldn't have the heater nobody would have it , so Grandma had to give in . 
`` Thrifty of her to use it up . 
Unusual in a case like this , but '' -- `` You can joke ! 
Didn't you read it ? 
She's married that tenant ! 
'' `` I read it , yes . 
This ought to simplify Tolley's life '' . 
Laban had more to say . 
Tolley had gone to live in California . 
He'd mentioned it , himself , at church and everybody seemed to have the idea that Tolley had left because Jenny had jilted him for Roy Robards . 
`` It was plain as the nose on your face that they're laughing about it , Mamma . 
Zion stayed to get my pin , but it'll be a cold day in June when I go back '' . 
`` We will both go back , Laban '' ! 
Kizzie turned to go inside . 
`` Let me stay and take the pictures you wanted , Mamma . 
The sun's right '' -- `` Pictures '' ? 
She swung around . 
`` What pictures '' ? 
`` In Brace's room ! 
You told me to bring my camera . 
I'm not going back '' -- `` Indeed you are ! 
Why should I want pictures of an empty room now ? 
Tolley had no idea of marrying that sneaky little Jenny ! 
This -- trip of his had nothing to do with her consorting with tenants , and I am going to see that everybody at Mt. Pleasant understands that simple fact . 
Wait for me , Laban , I'll be dressed in half a second '' ! 
Frank followed her into the bedroom , hooked her dress up the back . 
`` Hurry , Frank ! 
They're not going to laugh at the Fairbrothers and Labans very long ! 
Tolley's going is my fault . 
I drove him away . 
You know it and I'll tell everybody exactly how it happened '' . 
She was so beautiful , so valiant , so pitiable . 
He kissed her . 
`` Make your confession to God , Kizzie dear , not to the congregation '' . 
`` I'll decide that when I get there . 
I was so cruel to Tolley , so unfair . 
But I'll be fair now ! 
He is coming back , isn't he , Frank '' ? 
Yes , oh yes . 
What else was there to say ? 
Returning to the log-house he found some favorite lines from Jonathan Swift on his lips : `` Under the window in stormy weather I marry this man and woman together . 
Let none but Him who rules the thunder Put this man and woman asunder '' . 
Absolution for his lie ? 
He questioned God's taking time to telegraph the message , but he felt better about Kizzie , and he took the sealed envelope from its pigeonhole , wondering why he had preserved it . 
If he died before she did , she would never be unable to resist opening it . 
In any case he would be thrusting a burden on his remaining sons , making them parties to a deception peculiarly his own . 
It was simply his necessity to confess which had made him write and keep this thing . 
`` You've told God , Frank '' , he said . 
`` Why lacerate the -- congregation '' ? 
Reaching for an old clay pot , relic of pioneer days , he tore the envelope in pieces , dropping them into it , touching the little pyre to flame , watching it curl , the red sealing wax melting and bubbling in the feathery ash . 
Surely now his beloved son could rest in peace . 
`` ' And let me go , for the night gathers me , and in the night shall no man gather fruit ' '' . 
A beautiful and haunting line , a subtle genius , Swinburne , difficult not to envy a gifted man , and perhaps he did . 
But there were great satisfactions , even for a small man . 
Beyond his window were the greening trees , new spring , eternal hope , eternal life . 
There lay Grand Fair's Quinzaine , his own young parents' graves , but new life and promise for his sons , grandsons . 
He poured his thimble of wine for the toast he'd made so often . 
`` To absent loved ones '' . 
But this last time he drank not to Brace but `` To Tolley '' ! 
Mr. Robards -- Jenny was the only person she knew of in the Mt. Pleasant neighborhood who called him that -- was kind but too easygoing . 
It didn't bother him for everybody from the blacksmith to the preacher to say , `` Howdy , Miss Jenny '' , adding a careless `` Roy '' , but it did her . 
He could put a stop to it , she told him again and again . 
Simply call Mr. Whipsnade Oscar , and Dr. Dunne P.GA , and C'un Major Frank . 
Mr. Robards laughed , said he'd feel a damn fool , plain-out couldn't do that even to please her . 
`` You could try . 
And if I ever hear you say ' Mist Laban ' again I'll scream . 
And don't tell me you didn't at church Sunday . 
I heard you '' ! 
He really hadn't meant to , he assured her , but it was plain to her that the importance of these small things was lost on Mr. Robards . 
How strange it was that he could give her this handsome house and carte blanche as to its beautiful furnishings , and fail her in -- spiritual ways . 
Another weakness -- far more irritating than his manner of speaking , which he made only token effort to change -- was his devotion to that old horse of Tolley's . 
Her horse , rather . 
But Mr. Robards' now , oh my yes , indeed , yes ! 
He called her `` the Mare '' much as Mrs. Whipsnade spoke of `` the Queen , God bless her '' . 
He , with fifteen or twenty horses or mares or geldings or what-nots out there in the barn , was reverent only of `` the Mare '' , `` the Racin' Mare '' , the revolting Gunny . 
For the first few months of their marriage she had tried to be nice about Gunny , going out with him to watch this pearl without price stamp imperiously around in her stall . 
And what had happened ? 
Gunny invariably tried to bite her . 
Nerves , Mr. Robards said , just a nip anyway . 
`` Stand back , Miss Jen , she's oneasy of your scarf '' . 
Never , `` Quit that , you sor'l devil '' ! 
Never concern for his wife's nerves , or the danger that the curled lip and big teeth might mark their own dear baby due in January . 
She musn't annoy Gunny whose foal was due then too ! 
Listening for hours to his laments that the war and `` Mist Fair's '' poverty afterwards had robbed the mare of many a racing triumph , and to his predictions of greatness for the procession of foals to come , Jenny could look forward to years of conflict with an animal who disliked her intensely and showed it . 
Gunny symbolized so much that was unpleasant -- Tolley , the indifference with which the Fairbrothers and indeed the whole neighborhood now treated her and which she would die rather than acknowledge to her husband , his lack of understanding and sympathy in her present condition , her disgusting swollen stomach . 
Human birth was no novelty to Mr. Robards . 
Tillie was a fine midwife and could get here quick , he suggested . 
Jenny's aversion to having Dr. Dunne , a former admirer , seemed silly to him , but he would humor her , get anybody she wanted , the best never being too good for her . 
The chances were against his being here to humor her when her time came , she was sure . 
He would be in the barn , or riding for the veterinarian ! 
Night after night he stayed with Gunny in the dead of winter , rubbing her with quarts of expensive liniment , fussing over her bran mash as the cook did over charlotte russe , tracking manure on the pretty new carpet when he did come to the house . 
Yet when the dear baby came , he had Tillie over here in a jiffy , and was as attentive and sweet and worried and happy when it was all over as any husband could have been . 
Jenny wished now that she had had Dr. Dunne , feeling that somehow he wouldn't have allowed the dear baby to turn into triplets . 
There was something not nice about triplets , though their father seemed pleased , showing no disappointment that they hadn't been the son he wanted , saying , `` You don't see triplets trippin' down the pike ever' day , Miss Jen , hon . 
Rhyme 'em up cute -- Arcilla , Flotilla '' Edmonia for her mother , she said firmly , Jennifer , for herself , and -- `` Kezziah , for Miss Kizzie '' , he suggested . 
`` She was mighty good to you past times , an' this'll fetch her '' . 
Now she must be thinking of a boy-name , something special . 
Just wait till she saw the Mare's foal . 
Handsomest colt in all Kentucky . 
Strong too , up on his legs when he was an hour old . 
What about Royal Robards ? 
`` Why don't you name him Jesus Christ ! 
'' She burst into tears . 
Roy was deeply distressed . 
He'd had no idea how unhappy his sweet peach had been . 
Of course she wasn't herself right now , but as her strength came back her spirits didn't seem to rise with it . 
He had a good idea why not . 
Those elegant `` At Home '' cards she sent out , now she could wear her pretty clothes again , and had the house all trimmed up , hadn't brought many callers in two whole months . 
Doc Dunne and Miss Sis had come . 
So had Miss Shawnee Rakestraw , full of criticisms about the changes here , giving thanks that her dear old father had gone to his Heavenly Rest last year , saying how much she enjoyed her boarding house in town in inclement weather , was looking forward to Quinzaine Spa this summer . 
There was an idea . 
Miss Kizzie had been right snippy ever since they were married , though you'd have thought a namesake would have brought her round . 
Oh , she'd come to see them once , left silver teething rings for all of the trips . 
But when Miss Jen went over right away to return the call , Miss Kiz couldn't have been very cordial , for she'd come back before she hardly had time to get there . 
More and more , these days , she'd been driving that pretty little mare that looked like her , over to Tillie's and Nick's -- his own old square frame box on posts , chickens and cats and pups under the house , everybody friendly inside , making a to-do over the babies dressed like dollies . 
Though he was glad she got on well with his young folks , she ought to be welcome at the finest house in the land , too . 
It made him pretty hot under the collar , after the idea Miss Sis had given him , to be told by Miss Kiz that her holy spa was all reserved for this summer and next , if you please , and that much as she regretted it , they would be unable to entertain Mrs. Robards and the children . 
She hoped they were well . 
He didn't tell Miss Jen , but she must have got word from the cook or nurse , who of course knew those Quinzaine nigs , and she really took a fit . 
If he ever did such a thing again she'd die of shame . 
`` Have a party an' leave 'em out , hon '' , he suggested . 
`` A swell party , send an invite to ever'body but them -- those folks you met at the Galt House , the ones I've got to know in this new Jockey Club affair , the whole dang neighborhood . 
We'll have oystchers -- couple bar'l oystchers'll fetch in a crowd any time . 
I'll see word gets round '' . 
`` Don't you dare ! 
'' Miss Jen was funny that way , funny that she didn't seem to take to his ideas and perk up . 
He was downright worried about her , but there was one more thing he could try . 
Zion was surprised when Roy's buggy stopped beside her on the pike one early summer day as she was walking home from the country school where she was teaching now that Eph Showers had had a call to preach in some mountain town . 
Roy smiled -- he did have a nice smile -- took off his hat most politely , told her to hop in , and he'd give her a lift to Quinzaine . 
Her hesitation was only momentary and she hoped he didn't notice it , as she settled herself , asked quickly how Miss Jenny and the babies were getting on . 
`` See for yourself , Miss Zion . 
It won't take a minute '' . 
He swung in through his own wide gateway . 
`` Them's the purtiest babes you ever did see , but Miss Jen gets mighty lonesome . 
She'll relish the sight of a friendly face . 
Miss Kiz won't care your comin' , will she '' ? 
`` Why of course not '' , Zion said uncomfortably . 
`` He must have forgiven me '' , Henrietta murmured to the room . 
The absolution of Doaty's last will and testament was proof enough of that ; ; Doaty would never have left her house to a godless woman . 
She found herself wishing an old wish , that she had told Doaty she was running away , that she had left something more behind her than the loving , sorry note and her best garnet pin . 
Perhaps Doaty had guessed already and kept her counsel . 
Henrietta thought , It's extraordinary how much she always knew about both of us . 
There had been more to know about Hetty , inevitably , and most of it unfavorable . 
Adelia was the good one , or , if not always good , less frequently tempted . 
Their childhood would have been quite circumspect without Hetty's flair for drama , especially through the long summers . 
In winter , in the city , there had been the Maneret School , which taught excellently with a kind of austere passion for knowledge ; ; there had been lessons in French from a small Polish nobleman with a really profound distaste for his pupils ; ; there had been the dancing class -- Miss Craddock , thin and tireless , with her supervising wand and her everlasting one-two-three , one-two-three . 
There had been supper parties and teas , fetes and little balls , Mama small and pretty and gay and Papa enormously jocular , enormously possessive , the sun around which the Blackwell planets revolved . 
Mama had died before the corruption of the family circle , the interruption of Charles . 
It was safe to assume that Papa , sighing heavily , had said many times to his remaining daughter , `` Thank God your poor mother was spared this '' , and indeed it might be true that it had been easier for Henrietta to leave , with her hand in Charles' hand , just because her `` poor mother '' was gone already and would never know . 
Mama was vulnerable ; ; one had always felt the need to make a safe world around her . 
But I would have gone anyway , thought Henrietta . 
She had always been able to ignore the moral question because there had been no choice . 
Only at this moment -- perhaps because it was before dawn and she was lying in Doaty's bed -- she found herself examining how others might regard her . 
Perhaps they would argue that morality consisted just of that ability to see a choice . 
She turned on her side , finding the idea oppressive . 
If Adelia had felt about someone as Henrietta felt about Charles , would she have run away with him ? 
Impossible to imagine Adelia feeling so about anyone . 
No temptation , no sin . 
No temptation , no virtue ? 
A curious thought to end a curious night . 
The birds were really awake now in a colloquy of music , and light was beginning to creep across the room , touching sill and door , table and chair and all of Doaty's flowers in their artificial blossom and leaf . 
Before anything else , she would go to Doaty's grave with flowers from Doaty's forgotten garden . 
Everything must wait upon this mission , this sentimental duty of a pilgrim whose nature avoided graveyards . 
She closed her eyes , remembering the small French cemetery , enclosed by stone walls . 
It had always seemed to rain there , and even the grass was gray . 
After the sad impatient moment , waiting for comfort which could not come , she slipped out of bed and went to the open window . 
The garden below was lacy with dew and enchanting in its small wildness . 
Leaning out , she could see a tangle of rosebush and honeysuckle , one not quite come to bloom , one just beyond it . 
On a thrusting spray thick with thorns and dewdrops and swelling pink buds , like a summer Valentine , a bird balanced and sang , nondescriptly brown and alive with its own music , a little engine of song . 
It was so pretty and artless that she felt like a child again and would have enjoyed running out barefoot to play on the wet grass with all the growing things , but Doaty never permitted bare feet and she was decidedly not a child but une femme d'un certain age . 
Feeling suddenly neat and subdued , she dressed quite soberly and went downstairs . 
Rosa , unbelievably , was not yet up and about , reassurance that Rosa was human . 
Feeling protective toward this sleeping being , Henrietta found a yesterday bun and milk in a white jug , a breakfast which was somewhat the equivalent of going barefoot . 
Outside , the garden , the tame wilderness , yielded a patchwork bouquet of daisies , sweet william , scented stock and lady's bedstraw , which she tied with long grasses and took back to show Rosa , who was now stirring about the kitchen and haranguing Folly . 
The poodle came gleefully to Henrietta and begged for the flowers , supplicating the air with prayerful forepaws . 
Henrietta held her bouquet out of reach and said it was for Doaty . 
`` Rummaging in the dew '' , said Rosa coldly . 
`` Go change your shoes before you turn around '' . 
She sounded so exactly like Doaty that Henrietta obeyed her under the clear impression that she could either comply or stay home . 
Folly danced , eager for whatever lay beyond the door . 
To a Blackwell , there was only one church . 
The cemetery slumbered just behind it , and the way lay through the village and close to the sea . 
For the first time in thirty years , Henrietta walked down the narrow street with its shuttered shops just stirring and its inhabitants eying her with the frankest curiosity . 
She smiled and bowed , recalling the princess-in-a-carriage feeling she had enjoyed when she was a child . 
Now , some of the acknowledgments were cautious , but all were interested . 
An old man , sitting against the wall of a cottage and waiting for the sun to find him , gave her a more than reflective look as she passed , the sap still plainly rising in his branches . 
On an impulse , she turned back and said good morning . 
He cupped his ear and shook his head at her repetition , announcing in a nettled way that he had heard her the first time . 
He then offered his own estimate of the weather , which was unenthusiastic . 
`` Summer's been slow to come '' , he said . 
`` It's my dryin' out time '' . 
He scowled at her flowers . 
`` I'm taking them to the cemetery '' , said Henrietta , out of a vague feeling of hospitality . 
`` They'll be takin' me next '' , he said pleasantly , `` but not so soon's they plan . 
See half of 'em in their graves before I choose my own coffin . 
It's dryin' myself out that does it '' . 
He regarded her with rising hope . 
`` You'd like to hear how I go about it '' . 
`` It's nice of you '' , Henrietta said doubtfully . 
`` Y're welcome '' . 
He straightened himself , soldierly against the wall , and pulled his sprawled feet together so they stood side by side in their old boots . 
His stick ceased to be a thing to rest his chin on and became a pointer for emphasizing the finer aspects of his text . 
`` Every month , f'r three days '' , he said happily , `` I take no water into my system , no water whatsoever . 
It rests the tissues '' . 
Henrietta murmured that she could quite see how it would , and he nodded approval of her womanly good sense . 
`` Rests the tissues '' , he said , `` and pacifies the system . 
My dad did it , and he lived to a great age '' . 
He looked up at her sharply . 
`` Don't remember , do you '' ? 
She did suddenly , through the link of memory with his father , old Titus , who must have been in his nineties when Henrietta ran away . 
Next to the Blackwells , Titus had owned the island most , and she and Adelia had often stood in front of him , silenced by his terrible years -- a scanty man with a thin beard and very deep-set blue eyes like a mariner , more aged than possible . 
He had never spoken once to the awed sisters , but his son had been friendly , a big fellow of fifty or more , a fishing-boat captain and powerful like the sea . 
It must be that son who sat before her now , shriveled to half his size and half his senses . 
She said gently , `` Of course I remember you '' . 
`` Not so well's I remember you '' , he said . 
`` Y're the young Blackwell woman . 
Ran away on a black night with a lawful wedded man . 
I know all about you '' . 
`` You do seem to '' , said Henrietta , impressed . 
`` Can't blame a man for leavin' his wife '' , he said quite cheerfully . 
`` Left mine many a time , only she never knew it . 
Man in a boat , there's a lot of places he can put in at and a lot of reasons he can be away for a bit . 
Any harm in that '' ? 
`` Probably '' , said Henrietta dryly . 
He gave a short hard laugh and looked at her knowingly . 
`` You'd be the one to say '' , he observed , and she found herself liking his approval none too well , but she could not defend herself and say that her actions were `` different '' , since all actions had their own laws . 
Only , this old man's connivance was even less to her taste than Selma Cotter's open censure . 
Well , she had not come back to Great Island to be understood , praised or condemned . 
She had come to make her peace with the past , and of that past this ancient of the earth was only a kind of shadow . 
She started to move away , just as a woman came out of the cottage , a big-boned , drab-haired figure with a clean apron tied over her limp print dress . 
She smiled vaguely at Henrietta and spoke to the old man . 
`` You've not had your breakfast yet , gran'dad '' . 
`` Y'r dam' porridge is no breakfast '' , he said . 
`` Milk and sops '' ! 
He beat the air with his stick , and it fell from his claws and clattered on the stones . 
`` He's lowly today '' , his grand-daughter said wearily , and bent to pick it up . 
`` He's got this idea about drying out '' `` It ain't an idea '' ! 
`` If it ain't an idea '' , she said , `` how comes it you can drink beer but not water '' ? 
He looked piously to heaven and said , `` Beer don't affect the tissues none '' , and the ingenious hypocrisy of this defense pleased Henrietta so that she forgave him his stint of malevolence . 
His grand-daughter sighed . 
`` Come on , do . 
The children are eating , and Miss Blackwell's on her way somewheres '' . 
`` To the graveyard . 
Who ain't '' ? 
`` Not me . 
I've got a day's work to do . 
-- You'll be visiting Miss Doaty , Ma'am '' ? 
Henrietta nodded . 
How much they knew about her ! 
The woman ( she must have been a tiny baby when Hetty and Delia had stood arm in arm , watching great age grow small ) answered the nod with her own . 
`` God rest her soul , she was a sweet one . 
Come on now '' . 
She put a strong hand under the old man's arm and lifted him up , patiently , with the gentle cruelty and necessary tyranny that the young show toward the very old . 
He mumbled at her but let himself be led off inside the house , shuffling mightily to make it clear how weak and aged he was and how he was buffeted about by those who still had their wicked strength . 
There was a gabble of voices from indoors , young hungry sounds like cats after fish , and a burst of swearing from the old man . 
Henrietta looked down at her bouquet , still lively with its color and scent , and set her feet on their journey's way again , leaving the village street and crossing the first field , Folly dancing ahead of her . 
At the edge of the field , the wild rolling land took over , dotted with fat round bushes like sheep . 
They were covered with tiny white blossoms , their scant roots clawing at the stony ground , and wild birds darted in and about and through them so they were nearly alive with the rustle and cry . 
The air was full of sounds too but placid ones , a terrestrial humming as much out of the earth as out of the blue sky . 
She felt mindless , walking , and almost easy until the church spire told her she was near the cemetery , and she caught herself wondering what she would say to Doaty . 
Both church and graveyard were smaller than she remembered them ( how many things had lessened while she was gone away ) but the headstones had grown so thick in thirty years that to find one named `` Dorothy Tredding '' seemed suddenly impossible . 
She sat down on the nearest , fallen with age and gray with sea-damp , her fingers tracing the indecipherable carved letters padded with green moss . 
The day's sun was gathering its strength in gold , and she wished she had brought her parasol , if only to shade Doaty's flowers . 
A small , rock-carved angel watched her from a nearby tomb , the only angel in the cemetery . 
She remembered , suddenly , a night of savage moonlight and scudding clouds when she and Adelia , having dared each other , had stolen out of their great safe house and come here , hand in hand , hoping and fearing ghosts . 
The Momoyama family had come from Miyagi Prefecture , in the northeast of the main Japanese island of Honshu , where there are still traces of the mysterious Ainu strain . 
The Ainus were a primitive people , already living on the island before the principal ancestors of the Japanese came from Southern Asia . 
Apparently they were of Caucasian blood . 
They had white skins and blue eyes ; ; all their men were bearded , and many of their women were beautiful . 
A pitiful few of them are left now , to subsist mainly on the tourist trade and to sing their ancient tribal chants , which have the same haunting sadness as the laments of the American Indians . 
Most of them have been assimilated , but sometimes a man in Miyagi or Akita prefectures is much more hairy than the average Japanese , and occasionally a girl will be strikingly lovely , her coloring warmed and improved by a little of the tawny honey-in-the-sun tint of the invaders from the South . 
Tommy Momoyama was one of these fortunate occasions . 
She was taller than most Japanese girls , and had the exquisitely willowy form of the Japanese girl who is lucky enough to be tall . 
Her nose was higher of bridge , her complexion so pale as to be quite susceptible to sunburn , and the fish and vegetable diet of her forebears had given her teeth that were white and regular and strong . 
Her mouth , soft and full , was something for any man to dream about . 
She had black eyes , long and intriguingly tilted , and the way she walked was melody . 
She had been in Japan just one week . 
It was an alien land , and she hated it intensely ; ; she was already considering putting in rebellious requests for duty at San Diego , Bremerton , the Great Lakes , Pensacola -- any place the Navy had a hospital -- with a threat to resign her commission if the request were not granted . 
Anywhere would be better than the land of her ancestors . 
There was nothing wrong with her job . 
Tommy had been assigned to the psychopathic ward . 
There were no depressingly serious cases : the ward doctor sometimes teamed up with the chaplain to serve as a marriage counselor -- sometimes the Navy sent people back to the States to preserve a marriage -- but mental health as a rule was very high . 
At present the doctor's main concern was in seeing to it that Japanese salvage firms were not permitted to operate on the hulks of warships sunk too close inshore , because the work involved setting off nerve-shattering blasts at all hours . 
Tommy was interested in psychiatry , because there was much an understanding nurse could do to help the patients . 
But she suffered in her off-duty hours . 
Such as now , when she sat at a table in the coffee shop at the Officers' Club , having coffee and a hamburger to sustain her until dinnertime . 
She had changed into a cocktail dress , and the whole evening should have been before her , but already she was beginning to get a tight feeling at the back of her neck . 
This was one of the Navy's crossroads -- you find them all around the world . 
Ships from the West Coast rotated on six-month tours of duty with the Seventh Fleet , and Yokosuka was the Seventh Fleet's principal port for maintenance , upkeep and shore liberty . 
Sooner or later , all the gray Navy ships came in here ; ; if Tommy sat long enough , she would be sure to see all the young officers she had met in San Diego and Long Beach . 
And she wanted desperately to see someone she had known back there . 
She felt , rather than saw , the approach of the good-looking young man . 
He came through from the Fleet Bar , which was stag , with the ice cubes tinkling in a glass he carried . 
When he saw Tommy sitting alone , the tinkling sound stopped . 
He was perhaps a trifle tipsy , having been long at sea where drinking is not permitted , and consequently out of practice ; ; he wore a brown tweed sports jacket obviously tailored in Hong Kong , and he was of an age that marked him as a lieutenant . 
Probably off one of the carriers -- an aviator . 
There was a fifty-fifty chance , perhaps , that he would be unmarried , and an even more slender chance that his approach would be different . 
Japan did something to a man -- and it wasn't just Japan , either , because the same thing applied anywhere overseas . 
It was as if foreign duty implied and excused license ; ; it intimated that the folks at home would never know about it , and , therefore , why not ? 
Then the young man in the brown sports jacket spoke , and it was no different . 
`` Harro , girl-san '' ! 
He said , turning on what was meant to be charm . 
`` You catchee boy-furiendo ? 
Maybe you likee date with me '' ? 
`` I beg your pardon '' ! 
Tommy said out of her cold rage . 
`` I don't believe I know you , and I can't understand your quaint brand of English -- it was meant to be English , wasn't it '' ? 
The nice-looking young officer fell back on his heels , open-mouthed and blushing . 
At least , he had the decency to blush , she thought . 
`` Oh -- I'm sorry ! 
You see , I thought -- I mean I really had no idea '' -- `` Oh , yes -- you had ideas '' ! 
Tommy interrupted furiously . 
`` All wrong ones '' ! 
Then she jerked her thumb toward the door in a very American gesture , and dropped into Navy slang . 
`` Take off , fly-boy '' ! 
`` Uh -- sorry '' ! 
He muttered , and took off , obviously feeling like a fool . 
The trouble was that there was no lasting satisfaction in this for Tommy . 
She felt like a fool , too . 
It hadn't been this way in college , or in nurses' training ; ; it wasn't this way in the hospital at San Diego . 
Everybody had accepted her for what she was -- a very charming girl . 
Nobody had addressed her in broken English at any of those places , nobody had suggested that she wasn't American . 
There are Spanish girls who look like Tommy Momoyama , brunettes with a Moorish hint of the Orient in their faces ; ; there are beauties from the Balkan states who are similarly endowed , and -- back in the blessed United States -- they were regarded simply as pretty women . 
Now , having been sent halfway around the world on a job she had not asked for , Tommy was being humiliated at every turn . 
She looked around , self-consciously . 
Four little Japanese waitresses were murdering the English language at the counter -- Yuki Kobayashi happened to be one of them . 
Everybody but Tommy seemed to think it was charming when they called , `` Bifutek-san '' ! 
For a steak sandwich , or `` Kohi Futotsu '' ! 
For one cup of coffee . 
Two other Japanese girls were sitting at the tables , both quite pretty and well groomed . 
One was with a whitehaired and doting lieutenant commander ; ; the other was with her American husband and their exceptionally appealing children . 
Seeing these did nothing for Tommy's mood . 
She told herself rebelliously , and with pride , I am an American ! 
And so she was , and would remain . 
But she was learning that so long as she was in this country , and wore civilian dress in the Club , there would always be transient young men who would approach her with broken English . 
There had been occasions when some of the more experienced had even addressed her in what might have been perfectly good Japanese . 
Tommy wouldn't know ; ; after coming to America , her parents had spoken only English . 
One thing was becoming increasingly sure . 
She had been sent to the wrong place for duty . 
There was more to service in the Navy Nurse Corps than the hours in the ward . 
One had to have friends , and a congenial life in after-duty hours . 
Now there was raucous male singing from the Fleet Bar . 
It was terribly off key , and poorly done , and Tommy could never admit to herself that male companionship was a very natural and important thing , but all at once she felt lonesome and put-upon . 
She finished her hamburger and drank her coffee and paid her check ; ; she got out of the coffee shop before the incident could be repeated . 
Eating while angry had given her a slight indigestion . 
Back in her living quarters at the hospital she took bicarbonate of soda , and sulked . 
Then , after a while , she went to her mirror . 
It was all true . 
She certainly looked Japanese , and perhaps she could not really blame the young men . 
And , still , they did not have to be so crude in their approach . 
There was a letter to write to her mother , and she tried to make its tone cheerful . 
She promised that she would soon take a few day's leave and visit the uncle she had never seen , on the island of Oyajima -- which was not very far from Yokosuka . 
And tomorrow she would take time to shop for the kimono her mother wanted to present to the young wife of a faculty member as a hostess gown . 
Tommy , of course , had never heard of a kotowaza , or Japanese proverb , which says , `` Tanin yori miuchi '' , and is literally translated as `` Relatives are better than strangers '' . 
Actually , this is only another way of saying that blood is thicker than water . 
Doc Doolittle's scheduled appearance at captain's mast was a very unusual thing , because the discipline dispensed there is ordinarily for the young and immature , and a chief is naturally expected to stay off the report . 
But the beer hall riot in Subic had been unusual , too , and Walt Perry was convinced that Doc had started it through some expert tactics in rabble rousing . 
Just why anybody should wish to start a riot the executive officer didn't know . 
In his opinion , Doc had not grown up . 
The lieutenant was not entirely wrong in the belief . 
There had never been a good reason for Doc Doolittle to grow up . 
He had come into the Navy too young , with the image of the fun-loving Guns Appleby before him . 
The war found him much too early , and its perils -- and especially its awful boredom -- were best forgotten in horseplay and elaborate practical jokes , and even now Doc had never found any stabilizing , sobering influence . 
He remained young at heart , with an overdeveloped sense of humor . 
He wisecracked about the captain's indoctrination of new men , took great delight in slaughtering cockroaches with ethyl chloride , and gave no thought for tomorrow . 
He was doing thirty years , and the Navy would take care of him . 
The job security enjoyed by Doc Doolittle , and nearly all members of the Armed Forces , is a wonderful thing . 
Actually , all a man in uniform has to do is to get by . 
He may not rise to the heights , but he can get by , and eventually be retired . 
Doc had been under restriction to the ship since the Bustard left Subic . 
This deprived him of liberty in Hong Kong , but he told Boats McCafferty that Hong Kong was a book he had read before , and the Navy would always bring him there again , some day . 
At Yokosuka he was restricted to the confines of the Base because Walt Perry , being thoughtful , knew that Doc might have to draw some medical supplies from the hospital or the Supply Base . 
This gave Doc the whole range of the naval establishment , and suited him quite well . 
There were two things he wanted to do : inspect one of the many caves that had been dug into the hills on the Naval Base , and visit an old shipmate . 
A telephone line had been hooked up to connect the ship with the Base exchange . 
After supper , Doc called Whitey Gresham , who was now a lieutenant and had a family . 
`` Well , Doc , you old sonofabitch '' ! 
Whitey exclaimed , with true affection . 
`` Come over and have a drink . 
We live down by the Base commissary . 
Grab a taxi '' . 
`` I'll be there , but I'll walk '' , Doc said . 
`` I've got to run an errand on the way . 
See you in about an hour '' . 
He threw a smart salute at the gangway , went up the dock , and turned down the wide street in front of the Petty Officers' Club . 
How , he wondered , does one enjoy one's spare time ? 
He considered some interesting excursion but he was on the road every day from dawn to dusk . 
Then there was exercise , boating and hiking , which was not only good for you but also made you more virile : the thought of strenuous activity left him exhausted . 
Perhaps golf , with a fashionable companion -- but he'd lost his clubs , hadn't played in years . 
There was swimming over at the Riverside Hotel , but his skin was so white he looked like the bottom of a frog . 
Perhaps a packing trip into the Sierras , let his beard grow -- but that was too stark . 
I could , he thought , take a long walk -- but where ? 
The telephone rang . 
`` You missed it '' , Buzz's voice said , `` You should have gone over to the Pagan Room with us . 
Wow . 
Strippers , but scrumptious , and Toodle Williams and her all-lesbian band '' . 
`` Hi , Buzz '' , Owen said . 
`` I went over to the Willows and dropped two notes '' . 
`` Tough '' , Buzz said , `` Listen , we're having a stag dinner over at the Pagan Room on Friday . 
Imagine a stag dinner with Toodle Williams '' . 
He laughed and laughed . 
Owen wanted to be pleasant because Buzz worked the territory next to his , but he hadn't come to Reno for stag dinners . 
`` Thanks '' , Owen said , `` but Friday is a long way off and anything can happen '' . 
Buzz was a tireless instigator who never let his victims rest . 
When Owen was finally rid of him , there was a timid rap at the door . 
`` Yes '' , Owen called out . 
`` Yes '' ? 
`` I'm Mrs. Gertrude Parker '' , a soft voice explained , `` And I'd like to talk to you for a few minutes , please '' . 
Ahah , he thought , a lush divorcee at last . 
Probably saw me in the lobby . 
He was disappointed to find a nervous , scrawny woman with a big hat standing at the door . 
She frowned at his green pajamas with the yellow moons . 
`` How do you do '' ? 
She said , semi-professionally . 
`` Our church is sponsoring a group of very courageous women up in Alaska . 
We call them lay-sisters and they go among the Eskimos making friends and bringing the light . 
They're up there in that freezing climate and all of us have to try and help them '' . 
`` Oh '' ? 
`` You see '' , she said , looking past him into the room , where the highball glasses sparkled dully in the bright light , `` you and I can't understand the many hardships they have to undergo '' . 
`` Why is that '' ? 
She apparently wasn't satisfied with his reaction . 
Smug , Owen thought , smug and sappy . 
There was a slight nervous twitch in the region of her left eye . 
It gave her a lewd , winking effect . 
`` Have you ever tried to reason with an Eskimo '' ? 
She asked , winking wildly . 
`` They are a very difficult group of people '' . 
`` I don't know much about them '' , Owen admitted , `` but I suppose they have their own religion and they probably resent outsiders coming in and telling them what to do and what not to do '' . 
She smiled in a sickly-tolerant fashion . 
`` You know , that's very interesting . 
People don't know how much they give away about themselves by remarks like that . 
The more canvassing I do , the more I note how far most people are from their personal God '' . 
Forebearing , Owen kept his peace . 
What would happen next ? 
That she was out for a touch was certain , but when did she get to the pitch ? 
Several people passed in the hall and stared as he slowly retreated , trying to close the door a little , and she slowly leaned toward him and raised her voice . 
`` How did you get by the desk '' ? 
He asked curiously . 
`` I'm sure the hotel doesn't know you're wandering around the corridors , knocking on strangers' doors and talking down Eskimos '' . 
`` Oh , I just come once a week . 
Every day I visit a different hotel . 
I feel it's my duty . 
I do this work all on my own , because I understand the difficulties and I want to help these lay-sisters . 
Do you know these women go all through Alaska , and they don't have the proper facilities ? 
They travel in pairs as much as a hundred-and-fifty miles a day '' . 
`` Do you have any idea how far I travel every day ? 
I have the whole Pacific Northwest '' . 
Owen was aware he was getting overexcited but he couldn't help himself . 
Mrs. Gertrude Parker drew back . 
`` That's hardly a Christian approach '' , she remonstrated . 
`` You're in the secular world '' . 
`` I didn't say it was Christian . 
I don't think you'll find many active Christian salesmen . 
Not that religion isn't big business ; ; those bibles and prayer books make a lot of money for publishing houses , but they don't get top personnel . 
Our key salesmen are in appliances and cosmetics '' . 
`` God , I take it , plays no part in this '' , she said waspishly . 
`` God doesn't have any appliance or cosmetics '' , he said heatedly before he caught himself . 
It sounded silly ; ; why go on ? 
More people were passing ; ; he had to find some way to close this impossible conversation . 
`` And whiskey '' , she said , smiling and blinking at the highball glasses . 
`` Don't forget whiskey ; ; it's such a big seller '' . 
`` You know '' , he said , getting a grip on himself , `` I think you're going to have to excuse me . 
I have an appointment '' . 
`` I can imagine '' , she said . 
`` Probably down at the bar . 
But what do you want to do about the lay-sisters ? 
They must be freezing up there now . 
Can't you help them '' ? 
`` Leave a card or something . 
I'll think it over '' . 
`` I have no card '' , she said bitterly . 
`` You haven't been listening to what I've been telling you . 
I only hope my talking to you has helped you a little , anyway , because you need spiritual bucking-up '' . 
She looked crestfallen , as if he had somehow disappointed the whole human race . 
She stood indecisively for a moment , then walked down the hall ; ; he heard her knocking on another door . 
It took him about fifteen minutes to calm himself ; ; then he realized he was hungry . 
He showered , shaved , dressed and went down to the dining room for breakfast . 
On the way he stopped at the desk to receive his mail . 
There was a check from his company , and the usual enthusiastic bulletins on new lines they always issued . 
His lawyer had sent him a statement on his overdue alimony , and there was a letter from the Collector of Internal Revenue asking him to stop in his office and explain last year's exemptions . 
He ate breakfast in a sullen mood , but afterwards , when he walked out onto Virginia Street , he felt braced . 
He looked off to the crest of the Sierras , still white-topped ; ; the glisten of the Truckee River made a wide spangle . 
He felt suddenly elated , adventurous . 
With any luck at all he could easily find a flowerpot . 
Although it was only three o'clock , he stopped in at the Golden Calf . 
The tables were all spinning , the dice rattling , the bar crowded . 
Just to test himself , he played roulette for quarters on his old combination , five and seventeen , and within an hour , he had won , surprisingly , twenty dollars . 
The way was opening up ; ; when the management brought around champagne , the breakfast settled its whirling around in his stomach . 
The Golden Calf was dimly lit with shaded neon . 
There were more women than men in the place , but he couldn't find a flowerpot . 
They all had the hard look of gamblers who had stopped dreaming , who automatically turned the cards , hardly caring what showed up . 
The mural around the wall depicted early settlers in covered wagons , who appeared much more animated than the gamblers . 
The women had a bright shining expectancy as they leaned out from the wall and gazed splendidly into the distance , while the men were stern but hopeful . 
All , of course , except the Donner party who were bent on starving to death . 
`` I wonder if they did eat each other at the end '' , Owen mused . 
He sat down next to a heavily-upholstered blonde , but she was cleaned out in twenty minutes . 
She sighed a dirty word and left . 
Owen was surprised to see Mrs. Gertrude Parker playing the one-arm bandits that were cunningly arranged by the entrance . 
She sat down and played two slots at once , looking grim , as if bested by mechanical devices , and Owen felt sorry for the lay-sisters depending on her support . 
A dried-up cowboy sat down next to him in the blonde's place . 
He was a little more authentic than usual because he smelled slightly of the stables . 
`` What you need is a steady martingale '' , the cowboy announced after watching Owen play . 
`` You can't build on your hit-and-miss five-seventeen '' . 
`` What are you playing '' ? 
Owen asked . 
`` I'm just logging '' , the cowboy explained . 
`` I keep all these plays in this little black book , and I watch over a twelve-hour period to find out what numbers are repeating . 
But roulette's not my game . 
I'm always trying to find a breaking table in blackjack . 
Incidentally , I'm pretty famous in these parts : I'm called The Wrangler '' . 
`` Nice to know you . 
Don't you have to spend any time on your ranch '' ? 
`` Well , of course I do . 
I'm with the Bar-H , pushing a horse called Sparky . 
He's my own horse , and what I collect from him I use on blackjack . 
This Sparky can rack and single-foot and he's the fastest thing in Washoe County . 
I figure if I can get any kind of publicity campaign going , I'll land him on TV -- you know , one of those favorite horses for some Western hero . 
I once trained a horse for Hoot Gibson , but nothing like Sparky . 
He's a pinto and he photographs wonderfully '' . 
Five came up while Owen was listening to The Wrangler and he neglected to play , a loss of ten dollars . 
This proved conclusively that The Wrangler was a jinx , so he walked on down to Hurrays , an even more glorified gambling den than the Golden Calf . 
When he looked in the back , Mrs. Gertrude Parker was marking keno cards . 
His adventurous spirit had waned ; ; he studied the pistol exhibition that Hurrays featured as an added attraction . 
He ogled a long redhead with green eyes , but she was a shill with her money in front of her . 
He had no great prejudice against shills ; ; it just seemed such a dry run . 
There was no cash around ; ; everyone was flipping silver dollars . 
The management discreetly withdrew the green stuff into the office and gave the customers chips or checks or premium points . 
He read a special announcement whereby Hurrays would feature a special floorshow at three A.M. starring Adele ( The Body ) Brenner and fourteen glamorous schoolgirls . 
He wondered if he might bag a tourist , but they looked frightened of him . 
He passed two brides , both wearing orchids , and they made him feel a little sad . 
Owen found Buzz watching chuck-a-luck . 
Buzz had on a Hawaiian shirt and was carrying some sun-tan oil and dark glasses . 
He was shorter and fatter than Owen , who felt good standing next to him . 
`` We're all going over to Lake Tahoe and try our luck at Cal-Neva '' , Buzz explained , still instigating . 
`` We ran into a guy at the Pagan Room who guarantees we can beat the wheel . 
He started out as a stickman , then became a pit boss until the Club found him crossroading . 
He was knocking down checks at faro '' . 
`` I'm allergic to Tahoe '' , Owen explained . 
`` Something about the pollen '' . 
`` Well , okay '' , Buzz said . 
`` We'll see you around later '' . 
Owen went over to the crap table and the dice were hot , but he couldn't pyramid with any consecutive success . 
`` How's your luck , honey '' ? 
A short platinum blonde in a bursting sun-suit addressed him . 
She looked well-fed and prosperous , but he didn't get the impression he was being propositioned the way he'd been hoping . 
`` I haven't had any luck since I was a baby '' . 
`` Stake me '' , she said , `` and let me at those dice . 
I'll make them dance the tango . 
We'll get it in a hurry and get it out '' . 
`` Let's have a drink and discuss a merger '' . 
`` If you go broke '' , she said , smiling up at him , `` I'll leave you '' . 
`` Sounds like real love '' , Owen said . 
`` It sort of brings a lump to my throat '' . 
`` My name's Gisele '' , the blonde said after she ordered a Scotch . 
`` Named after the ballet . 
My mother wanted to call me Sylphide , but it sounded too affected '' . 
Spencer said nothing . 
`` Is there any word you would like to offer in your own defense '' ? 
Spencer shook his head . 
Alexander said , `` Answer me properly , Spencer '' . 
Spencer was quiet for a moment longer , then he said , `` There is nothing I want to say , Captain '' . 
`` Very well '' . 
Alexander walked away . 
Naval procedure , he thought , had its moments of grim humor . 
Philip Spencer had cold-bloodedly planned the murder of his captain , yet it seemed in order to chide him for a lapse of proper address . 
During the morning hours , it became clear that the arrest of Spencer was having no sobering effect upon the men of the Somers . 
Those named in the Greek paper were manufacturing reasons to steal aft under pretence of some call of duty , so as to be near Spencer , watching an opportunity to communicate with him . 
Hostile glances were flashed at both Alexander and Gansevoort . 
The two met in the Captain's cabin . 
`` What is the next step , Captain '' ? 
`` More arrests , I fear '' . 
In your opinion , who is this E. Andrews on the ' certain ' list '' ? 
`` Cromwell , of course . 
He is the oldest and most experienced of the lot . 
He saw the dangers , not the glories of being identified as a mutineer . 
Somehow he talked Spencer into letting him use another name '' . 
There was a tap at the door and Oliver entered with the word that Heiser wished to see the Captain . 
`` Have him come in '' . 
Heiser , breathless and wild-eyed , brought the chilling news that the handspikes , heavers and holystones had been mysteriously removed from their customary places . 
`` And also , sir , two articles which were considered souvenirs now must be regarded in another light entirely . 
An African knife and battle-ax are at this moment being sharpened by McKinley and Green . 
McKinley was overheard to say that he would like to get the knife into Spencer's possession and that '' -- `` Where did you gather all this information , Heiser ? 
Who reported to you the disappearance of handspikes and heavers and who '' -- He was interrupted by a crash from the deck and sprang toward the ladder , with Gansevoort and Heiser behind him . 
A glance revealed that the main topgallant mast had been carried away . 
The aimless milling about of what had been a well-trained , well-organized crew struck Alexander with horror . 
He bellowed orders and watched the alert response of some of his men and watched , too , the way a dozen or more turned their heads questioningly toward the shackled figure as though for further instruction . 
Adrien Deslonde hastened to Alexander's side . 
`` Small violently jerked the weather-royal brace with full intention to carry away the mast . 
I saw him myself and it was done after consultation with Cromwell . 
I swear it , sir '' . 
And it was clear that Adrien was not mistaken , for both Small and Cromwell took no step toward aiding in the sending up of the new topgallant mast till Philip Spencer had given the signal to obey . 
Then , with disappointment evident upon their faces , they moved to the work . 
Alexander guessed that they had planned confusion and turmoil , thinking it the ideal climate in which to begin battle and bloodshed . 
Their strategy was sound enough and , he reasoned , had been defeated only by Philip Spencer's unwillingness to sanction an idea he had not originated . 
When the mast was raised , Alexander gave the order for Small and Cromwell to be placed under arrest , and now three figures in irons sprawled upon the open deck and terror stalked the Somers . 
Spencer's potential followers were openly sullen and morose , missing muster without excuse , expressing in ominous tones their displeasure at the prisoners being kept in irons , communicating with the three by glance and signal . 
One of the missing handspikes came out of its hiding place after Midshipman Tillotson had been insolently disobeyed by Seaman Wilson . 
Tillotson had reported the man to Gansevoort and an hour later , with back turned , had been attacked by Wilson , brandishing the weapon . 
Wilson , shackled and snarling , was thrown with the other prisoners and was soon joined by Green , McKee and McKinley . 
Not a man on the brig , loyal or villainous , could be unaffected by the sight of seven men involved in the crime of mutiny . 
In the tiny cabin , Alexander met with Gansevoort , Heiser and Wales to speak and to listen . 
Three days had passed since Spencer's arrest and each day had brought new dangers , new fears . 
Gansevoort said , `` It requires an omniscient eye to select those if any on whom we can now rely . 
To have the Greek paper is not the great help that at first flush it seemed . 
From actions aboard , it is easy to guess that Spencer's boast of twenty staunch followers was a modest estimate '' . 
`` Well '' , Heiser ventured , `` why don't we hold an investigation with questioning and '' -- `` That would be worse than useless '' , Alexander broke in . 
`` There is not space to hold or force to guard any increased number of prisoners . 
Besides , suppose we hold a court of inquiry , then what ? 
Then we have informed a large number of our crew that when they reach the United States , they will be punished but that in the meanwhile , they may run loose and are expected to perform their jobs in good order . 
Mr. Heiser , does this sound like a truly workable plan to you ? 
Do you not think these men might choose the black flag here and now '' ? 
Wales said , `` Of course they would . 
They are about to do so at any moment as it is . 
All that is needed is for one man to feel self-confident enough to take the lead . 
As soon as that one man is appointed by himself or the others or by a signal from Spencer , we are going to be rushed . 
We are going to be rushed and murdered '' . 
`` That is extravagant language , Mr. Wales . 
We are not going to be rushed and murdered '' , Alexander said . 
`` We are going to bring the Somers into New York harbor safe and sound '' . 
`` Of course , I agree with the Captain '' , Gansevoort said thoughtfully , `` but the conspiracy is ferocious and desperate . 
The instinct of discipline has been lost . 
Anything is possible when anarchy has the upper hand '' . 
He paused , then added , `` Everything on a ship is a weapon . 
Implements of wood and iron are available for close and hasty combat no matter where a man stands . 
And we are positive of so few and suspicious of so many '' . 
`` We ourselves must stand sentinel '' . 
Alexander said . 
`` Under arms day and night , watch and watch about . 
Those of us present , the Perry brothers , Deslonde and the other midshipmen now have the responsibility of the Somers . 
A great deal of labor we have as well , for we are too uncertain of where trust may be placed '' . 
And when he was alone again in the cabin , Alexander lowered his head into his arms and wept , for he knew full well what must be done , what in the end would be done . 
With all his heart he had loved the Navy and now he must act in accordance with the Navy's implacable laws . 
And when he did , when he gave to his ship that protection necessary to preserve her honor , he knew he would lose forever the Navy to which he had dedicated his soul . 
Where had he failed ? 
How had he failed ? 
He who had tried so hard , who had yearned so passionately to be a great officer . 
It came to him as he wept there aboard the Somers that it was as foolish to strive for greatness as to seek to storm the gates of heaven . 
It was given or it was not given . 
One did one's best and if fortune smiled , there was a reward . 
One did one's best and if fortune frowned , an eighteen-year-old boy with murder in his heart sailed aboard one's ship . 
And Alexander sobbed like a girl for the dreams he had had , and he felt no shame . 
God knew his tears were his to shed if he so desired , for it had not been with an egotist's rage for fame that he had held precious his naval career . 
Another field had given him fame enough to satisfy any egotist . 
It was for love that he had served the Navy . 
To have someday that love returned was what he had lived for . 
Now the hope was gone . 
Yes , he would bring the Somers safely into New York harbor but at a price . 
Dear God , at what a price . 
And after a while , he dried his tears and walked the deck as a captain should with assurance and dignity . 
Stern-faced , he inspected the prisoners , satisfying himself that they were clean , well fed and comfortable within reason . 
The prisoners averted their eyes but not before he had glimpsed hatred and anger . 
Only Cromwell , the giant boatswain , was mild-mannered and respectful . 
He said , `` Captain , may I speak , please ? 
Captain , I am innocent of any plot against you or the ship '' . 
`` Are you , Cromwell '' ? 
`` Yes , sir . 
Before God I swear I am innocent . 
I know nothing of any plot , if there is such a thing '' . 
`` You are the only man aboard who can be in doubt '' . 
`` I cannot speak for others , sir , but I am innocent '' . 
He leaned closer to Alexander , squinting up at him from the deck . 
`` Surely , Captain , you did not find my name on any suspicious paper or anything '' . 
`` No , Cromwell , I did not find your name . 
You were careful about that '' . 
Now Spencer , seeming with effort to shake himself from lethargy , spoke . 
He said , `` Cromwell is telling you the truth . 
He is innocent '' . 
Alexander shifted his gaze to Spencer . 
The calmness and detachment of his tone suggested unawareness of how implicit was his own guilt in the words he had used to defend Cromwell . 
Alexander knew Spencer too well to think him naive or thick-skulled . 
And in a sudden wave of painful clarity , Alexander recognized a kinship with Spencer . 
Here was another human who understood the stupidity of quarreling with the inevitable . 
There was good fortune and there was bad and Philip Spencer , in handcuffs and ankle irons , knew it to be a truth . 
He expected nothing for himself but that which naturally follows those marked for misfortune . 
The red-haired captain , towering above the prisoner as a symbol of decency and authority , was shocked to find himself looking with sympathy upon Philip Spencer . 
This tragic lad had forged his own shackles . 
But he could not have done so , could not have found the way , had fortune favored him . 
And because fortune had favored neither the prisoner nor the red-haired captain , they would be each other's undoing . 
`` Spencer , if there is guilt , if you do not deny your own , how is it possible for Cromwell to be innocent ? 
He was your constant companion '' . 
The hazel eyes met Alexander's . 
`` I tell you he is innocent '' . 
`` And do you think there is a reason why I should accept your word '' ? 
`` Yes . 
I have nothing to gain by defending Cromwell '' . 
`` Nothing to lose , either , Spencer '' . 
`` That's true '' , Spencer agreed and withdrew himself from the conversation . 
His eyes went back to contemplation of the sea . 
`` I am innocent , Captain '' , Cromwell said again . 
`` Before God , Captain , I am innocent '' . 
And though it was logical that a man who could plot mass murder would not hesitate to speak an untruth , still it was difficult to understand why Spencer spoke only for Cromwell . 
The boatswain was as guilty as any . 
No action of his could be interpreted in his favor and four midshipmen , prior to their knowing the significance of the Greek paper , had seen it in Cromwell's hands while Spencer whispered explanations . 
`` I thought '' , Midshipman Rogers had told Alexander , `` that Spencer was teaching him geometry '' . 
It was fantastic to turn from the seven men in shackles to the wardroom , where a class of apprentices awaited him . 
This was a training ship and the training would continue , but there was an element of frightful absurdity here which Alexander recognized . 
Some of these apprentices were , in physical strength , already men and doubtless a percentage of them were Spencer's followers . 
Rachel steered me along toward a school for young boys beginning to study the Torah . 
Bits of trash lay in the roadway . 
The air smelled warmish and foul . 
A young man appeared out of a side alley and walked toward us with quick strides . 
He wore a long double-breasted coat of a heavy material , dark trousers , and black boots with buckles . 
His black hat with its wide brim , high crown , and fur trim rode high . 
With his head erect , he approached , not glancing at us , and passed by with his clear eyes raised and fixed straight ahead . 
He had a pinkish-white complexion , a small straight nose , a short black beard , and tightly curled paot . 
I was suddenly conscious of my bare arms . 
The girls in the market place wore long-sleeved dresses and covered their legs with cloth stockings . 
I turned and watched him stride down the center of the road . 
His hands were swinging at his sides , and he passed through the dingy market place with his back straight and , pivoting on his heel , he entered an old stone building . 
Rachel had seen me watching the young man . 
She smiled . 
`` When your mother was here he must have been a young boy . 
Like the ones you will see now '' . 
I swallowed hard and looked down at my feet plodding along beside Rachel . 
She led me into a twisting side alley . 
The dirty , discolored buildings looked boarded up , and their few windows stood high above our heads . 
Rachel said that schools and synagogues occupied most of the buildings . 
We entered one where the front door stood ajar and climbed a flight of steep steps to the main floor . 
An old man with a white beard and dressed in a long shabby coat , baggy trousers , and a black skullcap greeted us . 
Rachel talked to him . 
He nodded , clasping and unclasping his hands over his paunch , and flicked glances at me . 
I thought he would ask us to leave because Rachel and I were bare-armed , but he looked down into his beard and preceded us down the corridor . 
His toes pointed out toward the walls . 
He stopped in front of a door , placed a finger on his lips , and , still peering down into his beard , pushed open the door to a classroom . 
We stepped inside . 
He left us . 
Little boys crowded together on long wooden benches , and in the center of the room sat the teacher . 
His black beard dripped down over the front of his coat . 
One white hand poised a stick above his desk . 
He turned his surly , half-closed eyes toward us , stared for a second , then shouted in Yiddish , `` One , two , three '' ! 
Rapping the stick against the desk . 
The little boys shrilled out a Yiddish translation or interpretation of the Five Books of Moses , which they had previously chanted in Hebrew . 
They chanted a fixed tune in time to the report of the stick . 
Each boy opened his small mouth wide and rocked back and forth on the bench in the way his grandfather and great-grandfather had studied and prayed in the ghettos of Europe . 
The boys were tiny . 
They had large bright eyes , the small upturned noses of all babies everywhere , and hair cropped short except for the long ringlets of paot framing their little white faces . 
They bent over yellowed prayerbooks and looked up only to watch the teacher . 
Since they did not glance curiously at us once , I guessed that there was a penalty for distraction . 
The guttural language from the ghetto stopped . 
The teacher plunged the children into a new portion , this time in Hebrew , rapping the stick incessantly . 
One boy who rocked back and forth over his worn book had bright red hair and freckles . 
His tightly curled paot hung down to his narrow shoulders . 
In the center of his brilliant curls sat a small black skullcap . 
His head barely rose above the table . 
I stared at him for a long time . 
He did not return my interest . 
My eyes traveled over the bare walls and up to the one partially open window high above the little figures and back to the boys . 
Some of them ignored the texts and had apparently memorized the words long ago . 
They singsonged the portion at the teacher , who accompanied them in an off-key baritone and spurred them on with the stick . 
The tapping defined the rhythm and kept the boys awake . 
I could not keep my eyes away from the boy with the red hair . 
His body pitched back and forth on the bench . 
His front teeth were missing . 
I shuddered and backed out of the room . 
Rachel followed , looked at me , and clucked with her tongue . 
We walked down the cool hall silently . 
From behind us came the rapping of the stick and the high-pitched voices of the boys who would grow to devote their lives to rigid study and prayer . 
I said , `` How long do they keep that up '' ? 
`` All day '' , she said . 
`` Except for Shabbat , when they are praying all day '' . 
I rubbed my hands together . 
They had turned numb and prickly in the classroom . 
The old man in the baggy clothes waited at the foot of the steps . 
He glanced down into his beard and muttered something in Yiddish . 
Rachel said , `` He asks for money '' . 
She passed by him . 
I reached into the pocket of my skirt , fingered ten pruta , and dropped the coin . 
Then I picked it up again and handed it to the old man . 
He thanked me . 
I didn't look at him . 
I grinned at Rachel . 
`` Does this bother you '' ? 
I said . 
She smiled to herself . 
`` Most of our Sabras think it's horrible . 
When we were fighting , a few of our orthodox people were lying down in the roads so we could not pass . 
They said that we must not fight but wait for the Messiah '' . 
I was amazed . 
You had to have convictions to lie down in the road in all those clothes and appear as though you might wish to turn yourself out of your own home . 
You had to be stupid or crazy or immortal . 
And I wasn't . 
I was American . 
You had to know , also , that you were going to fail . 
All of it might have been heroic , but they had done it in the wrong place . 
I resented them . 
Rachel faced me . 
Her bright eyes were twinkling . 
She said , `` Sometimes I think they are keeping religion for us while we play around . 
Your mother hated this way of life . 
She wished to change much for the children here '' . 
I said quietly , respectfully , `` What did she do here ? 
In this section '' ? 
Rachel clicked her tongue behind her teeth . 
`` Here , nothing . 
But when she saw the children you have just visited , she wanted to take them away and put them out in the country , in the kibbutzim . 
She loved the children . 
She was a strange woman , your mother . 
When she loved , it was with a passion that drove her along and carried along with her those things she loved . 
Nothing was too impossible for her to do when she wanted . 
She stayed here to work for Aliah . 
For many immigrants , for many children , the first thing they knew of Israel and freedom was your mother . 
Sometimes it was dangerous for her '' . 
Rachel grinned slyly . 
`` But she loved danger . 
She took it with her wherever she went ; ; she chose it . 
And I think she sought out danger as much as she sought out helping other people . 
She was most strange woman . 
Ready to follow her impulse . 
It was an impulse when she was here in Me'a She'arim -- I was with her -- that led her to stay in Israel . 
Your mother wanted to bring children to Israel so that they could leave their ghettos . 
Here they did not need to be in ghettos . 
If she could not take the children out of this section , at least she could take other children out of their countries and put them on the farms . 
She set out to make sure that no Jewish child anyplace in the world had to live in a place such as this '' . 
I said quietly , gaining nerve , ready to ask any question at all , no matter how intimate , ready to be rebuffed , `` Then why did she leave Israel ? 
I'd like to know that very much '' . 
Rachel clasped her hands together and slowed her pace . 
The soles of her sandals reported sharply on the cobblestones . 
She pursed her lips , then clamped them together so tightly that I thought she was angry with me . 
But she sighed and her face relaxed . 
`` Trouble came into her life . 
She had good friends here , people who liked her . 
Who loved her . 
But she had to go out and hurt herself . 
There was a man here in town . 
He helped her meet people so she could go out and do the work she wanted . 
She worked very hard . 
There was a refugee who was able to come here because of her . 
He came with his son . 
At first I thought they were relatives of your mother , but it was not so . 
This refugee was a middle-aged man , a big , handsome man with a strut to his walk as I have never before seen . 
He had the black numerals on his arm , so he had been branded in a concentration camp . 
Yet he walked like a young man . 
Often he was terribly despondent and talked to no one . 
Then he would walk off for a few days alone in the direction of Europe . 
All his family was dead , except for his son . 
Your mother would always retrieve him when he wandered off , and she would send him home to his son . 
He loved the son and was always glad to be sent back to him . 
Then his son did something '' -- Rachel threw up her hands -- `` I don't know what , but something , to an official here -- it was during the Mandate -- and the son was imprisoned . 
A few hours after the son was arrested , your mother was informed . 
She ran from a little group of us . 
We were sitting together , talking . 
She went to the father and found he had hanged himself '' . 
Rachel paused . 
It was silent in the stone alley . 
Then she continued with energy , `` I myself did not see her until a week after she had run off to find the father . 
No one saw her except the man Reuveni '' . 
`` Yes '' , I said . 
`` I know him '' . 
Rachel gave me a direct , bright-eyed look . 
She said , `` Reuveni wanted your mother to give up her deep interest in this refugee . 
He said she would only hurt herself . 
He complained to me once that I must talk to her . 
When I did , she shrugged her shoulders and said that Reuveni wanted her to marry him . 
I asked her if she would , and she said she would not . 
He had known when he first helped her to meet the right people and work with them that she did not intend to marry him . 
Anyway , I did not see her until two weeks after the refugee hanged himself . 
She came to me one day . 
She was pale and skinny ; ; she was terribly alone . 
And she said that after this man had been dead for a week she had gone to Reuveni and accepted his proposal . 
He shouted at her and told her he loved her and couldn't understand why she had upset herself . 
But now he was happy she would let him straighten out her life and take care of her . 
He would never let her harm herself again . 
For one whole week he never let her stay alone . 
She let him lead her around . 
He took her to a doctor , for she was run down , nervous , did not care where she was . 
Reuveni took her with him wherever he went . 
He did not let her talk to people ; ; he did not let her choose her own food . 
She was limp and beaten from her loss ; ; she did not care . 
`` And I'll take you with me '' . 
The two of them against the world . 
That had been how she imagined it . 
For when he began to talk and dream all at the same time , making his plans as he went , she had begun dreaming too . 
But now the dream was over . 
The big waking up had happened . 
`` What did I imagine '' ? 
She thought . 
`` Did I see him about to swing low in a chariot ? 
Or maybe poling up the south fork of the Forked Deer River braving the wastes dumped in it ? 
Maybe I saw him on a barge with a gang of Ethiopians poling it '' . 
And I'll take you with me . 
He had taken her all right . 
Wednesday nights after youth fellowship . 
Out of the church and into his big car , it tooling over the road with him driving and the headlights sweeping the pike ahead and after he hit college , his expansiveness , the quaint little pine board tourist courts , cabins really , with a cute naked light bulb in the ceiling ( unfrosted and naked as a streetlight , like the one on the corner where you used to play when you were a kid , where you watched the bats swooping in after the bugs , watching in between your bouts at hopscotch ) , a room complete with moths pinging the light and the few casual cockroaches cruising the walls , an insect Highway Patrol with feelers waving . 
And the bed that sagged in a certain place where all the weight had been put too many times before and the walls fine and thin for overhearing talk in the next room when Gratt went out for ice , the sound coming through the walls like something on the other side of the curtain , so you knew they heard you when they were quiet and while you lay wondering what they had heard you listened . 
And Gratt Shafer would be in Memphis today for the wedding rehearsal and then tomorrow he would marry just like everybody knew he would , just like everybody knew all along . 
Like Mattie and the mayor up there gripping the microphone and Toonker Burkette back in his office yanking out teeth , like they all knew he would . 
Just like the balloon would go up and you could sit all day and wish it would spring a leak or blow to hell up and burn and nothing like that would happen . 
Or you could hope the parachute wouldn't open just so you could say you saw it not open , not because you meant any harm to Starkey Poe in his suit of red underwear , but mainly because you were tired of being an old maid -- a thing which cannot admit when it thinks it might be pregnant , but must stand the dizzy feeling all alone and go on like everything is all right instead of being able to say to somebody in a normal voice : `` I think I'm pregnant '' . 
You could wish that . 
Or you could wish your daddy would really do it -- kill Gratt Shafer like he said when you all the time , all along , could feel the nerve draining out of him like air out of a punctured tire when you are on a muddy road alone and it is raining and at night . 
So you sit in the car and listen to the air run out and listen to the rain and see the mud in front of the headlights , waiting for you , for your new spectator pumps , waiting for you to squat by yourself out there in your tight skirt , crying and afraid and trying to get that damned son-of-a-bitch tire off , because that is being an old maid too , if you happen to drive a car , it is changing the tire yourself in the night , and in the mud and the rain , hating to get out in it but afraid to stay and afraid to try to walk out for help . 
And every sound that might be the rain also might be the man who thinks after he has raped you he has to beat your brains out with a tire tool so you won't tell , a combination like ham and eggs , rape her and kill her , and that is being an old maid too . 
It is not having his baby nestled warm and fat against your breast and it is not having somebody that really gives a damn whether some tramp cracks your skull . 
And most of all it is not having the only man you could love , whether he drives a bread truck or delivers the mail or checks the berry crates down at the sheds , or owns seventeen oil wells and six diamond mines , for if you are anybody what he is or does makes no difference if he is the one . 
He can even be a mild-voiced little-town guy with big-town ideas and level gray eyes and a heart even Houdini couldn't figure out , how it is unlocked . 
And he can be on the way to Memphis , your Gratt Shafer can , and you discover you can stay alive and hate him and love him and want him even if it means you want him -- really want him -- dead . 
Because if you can't then nobody else can either , nobody else can have him . 
For you don't share him , not even with God . 
If it is love , you don't . 
And I'll take you with me . 
Even if that's all the promise he ever gave or ever will give , the giving of it once was enough and you believed it then and you will always believe it , even when it is finally the only thing in the world you have left to believe , and the whole world is telling you that one was a lie . 
Even when he is on the way to Memphis you will still have the promise resting inside you like a gift , and it is he inside of you . 
And in a way the promise works out true , for whether he wants you or not , you go with him in your heart . 
You feel him every mile further away . 
You feel where he is and what he sees , and at night you feel when he is asleep or with the other woman , the one that never could love him the way you do , the one who got him because she didn't particularly give a damn whether she got him or didn't . 
And you know you will always wonder all of your life whether it was because you wanted him so bad that you didn't get him , and you can feel nearly sorry enough to cry when you think of that other guy , the chump who begged you to marry him , the one with the plastered hair and the car he couldn't afford and the too-shiny shoes . 
You think : `` Did he feel that way about me '' ? 
It comes to you that probably he did feel that way to let you use him like you did when you couldn't have Gratt Shafer ; ; that he must have since he was there like the radio for you to turn on or snap off when you got tired of him , that other guy . 
It dawns on you that instead of a lump to fill the seat across the bridge table from you , he was a man , and that because Gratt Shafer was making you miserable , you were passing it down to him , to Gratt Shafer's substitute , that other guy . 
And you wonder if that is why the little man lost his job and his car and stayed drunk about a year before he straightened out and moved to St. Louis , where he got to be a big unhappy success . 
You wonder if he looks at his wife now and thinks of you . 
You wonder about the Christmas card with no name on it , and it comes to you that maybe it would have been better to have made somebody else happy if you couldn't be happy yourself , to give somebody else the one they wanted -- to give them you . 
`` Damn the world '' , she thought . 
She looked out at the corn field , the great green deep acres of it rolled out like the sea in the field beyond the whitewashed fence bordering the grounds . 
The mayor envisioned factories there . 
Homes and factories and schools and a big wide federal highway , instead of peaceful corn to rest your eyes on while you tried to rest your heart , while you tried not to look at the balloon and the bandstand and the uniforms and the flash of the instruments . 
The bands were impatient , but they were the only ones . 
The others , the ones in the stands , were spellbound , for hearing the mayor was for them like listening to a symphony was for sophisticated folks in New York City . 
It was like being in the concert hall in the afternoon and hearing the piano virtuoso rehearsing . 
He was good and they knew that what he was doing for them he would do all over the United States some day . 
So they stayed quiet and hung not on what he said but on how he said it , not listening exactly , but rather , feeling . 
If a man was good , if he was going to be governor , you felt it and you wanted him to go on forever . 
You were sorry when he finished talking because while he was up there you were someone else and the world was something else too . 
It was a place full of courage and hope and you were part of it . 
You laughed and then your chest swelled and you felt you could cry for a little bit , and then a feeling hit you like a chill in your stomach and the goose bumps rippled along your arm . 
He hit the theme about dying to defend your country , and you were ready to do it right then , without a second thought . 
While he talked you wouldn't trade being a West Tennessee farmer for being anything else in the whole damned world , no matter if it hadn't , in six weeks , rained enough to wet a rat's ass . 
She glanced at the man nodding beside her , a man with weather cracks furrowed into his lean cheeks , with powdery pale eyes reflecting all the droughts he had seen , reflecting the sky and the drought which must follow now in August -- yes , with eyes predicting the drought and here it was only June , only festival time again and thoughts of Gratt Shafer would not leave her . 
`` I should have stayed at the store '' , she thought . 
Back at the Factory-to-You with the other old maids , back there she was the youngest clerk and she was thirty-four , which made her young enough to resent the usual ideal working conditions , like the unventilated toilet with the door you had to hold shut while you sat down . 
There was no lock because Herman didn't allow a lock . 
A lock on the toilet would encourage malingering and primping . 
The toilet hadn't had a sincere scrubbing in years and there were things written on the walls of the little boxed-in place because you couldn't keep the public out -- entirely . 
She could not count the times Herman had rapped on the door , just a couple of bangs that shook the whole damned closet and might , someday , break away the pipe connections from the wall . 
The two little bangs meant that he was getting impatient to have a crowd of customers waited on and that if he had to he would jerk open the door and drag out , by the opposite door handle which she would be clutching , whichever-the-hell clerk it was who thought she could waste so much store time on the pot . 
And the hours were six-thirty in the morning until eleven at night on Saturdays and during sales , and there were no chairs and you couldn't smoke and the cooling was overhead fans and there was no porter or janitor . 
Among us , we three handled quite a few small commissions , from spot drawings for advertising agencies uptown to magazine work and quick lettering jobs . 
Each of us had his own specialty besides . 
George did wonderful complicated pen-and-ink drawings like something out of a medieval miniature : hundreds of delicate details crammed into an eight-by-ten sheet and looking as if they had been done under a jeweler's glass . 
He also drew precise crisp spots , which he sold to various literary and artistic journals , The New Yorker , for instance , or Esquire . 
I did book jackets and covers for paperback reprints : naked girls huddling in corners of dingy furnished rooms while at the doorway , daring the cops to take him , is the guy in shirt sleeves clutching a revolver . 
The book could be The Brothers Karamazov , but it would still have the same jacket illustration . 
I remember once I did a jacket for Magpie Press ; ; the book was a fine historical novel about Edward 3 , , and I did a week of research to get the details just right : the fifteenth-century armor , furnishings , clothes . 
I even ferreted out the materials from which shields were made -- linden wood covered with leather -- so I'd get the light reflections accurate . 
McKenzie , the art editor , took one look at my finished sketch and said , `` Nothing doing , Rufus . 
In the first place , it's static ; ; in the second place , it doesn't look authentic ; ; and in the third place , it would cost a fortune to reproduce in the first place -- you've got six colors there including gold '' . 
I said , `` Mr. McKenzie , it is as authentic as careful research can make it '' . 
He said , `` That may be , but it isn't authentic the way readers think . 
They know from their researches into television and the movies that knights in the middle ages had beautiful flowing haircuts like Little Lord Fauntleroy , and only the villains had beards . 
And girls couldn't have dressed like that -- it isn't transparent enough '' . 
In the end , I did the same old picture , the naked girl and the guy in the doorway , only I put a Lord Byron shirt on the guy , gave him a sword instead of a pistol , and painted in furniture from the stills of a costume movie . 
McKenzie was as happy as a clam . 
`` That's authenticity '' , he said . 
As for Donald , he actually sold paintings . 
We all painted in our spare time , and we had all started as easel painters with scholarships , but he was the only one of us who made any regular money at it . 
Not much ; ; he sold perhaps three or four a year , and usually all to Joyce Monmouth or her friends . 
He had style , a real inner vision of his very own . 
It was strange stuff -- it reminded me of the pictures of a child , but a child who has never played with other kids and has lived all its life with adults . 
There was the freshness of color , the freedom of perception , the lack of self-consciousness , but with a twist that made the forms leap from the page and smack you in the eye . 
We used to kid him by saying he only painted that way because he was so nearsighted . 
It may have been true for all I know , because his glasses were like the bottoms of milk bottles , but it didn't prevent the paintings from being exciting . 
He also had , at times , an uncanny absent-minded air like a sleepwalker ; ; he would look right through you while you were talking to him , and if you said , `` For Christ's sake , Donald , you've got Prussian blue all over your shirt '' , he would smile , and nod , and an hour later the paint would be all over his pants as well . 
Mrs. Monmouth thought of him as her discovery , and she paid two to three hundred dollars for a painting . 
It was all gravy , and Donald didn't need much to live on ; ; none of us did . 
We shared the expenses of the studio , and we all lived within walking distance of it , in cheap lodgings of one kind or another . 
Attending the life class was my idea -- or rather , Askington's idea , but I was ripe for it , and the other two wouldn't have gone if I hadn't talked them into it . 
I wanted to paint again . 
I hadn't done a serious picture in almost a year . 
It wasn't just the pressure of work , although that was the excuse I often used , even to myself . 
It was the kind of work I was doing , the quality of the ambition it awoke in me , that kept me from painting . 
I kept saying , `` If I could just build up a reputation for myself , make some real money , get to be well known as an illustrator -- like Peter Askington , for instance -- then I could take some time off and paint '' . 
Askington was a kind of goal I set myself ; ; I had admired him long before I talked to him . 
It looked to me as though he had everything an artist could want , joy in his work , standing in the profession , a large and steady income . 
The night we first met , at one of Mrs. Monmouth's giant parties , he was wearing a brown cashmere jacket with silver buttons and a soft pink Viyella shirt ; ; instead of a necktie he wore a leather bolo drawn through a golden ring in which was set a lump of pale pure jade . 
This set his tone : richness of texture and color , and another kind of richness as well , for his clothing and decorations would have paid the Brush-off's rent for a year . 
He was fifteen years older than I -- forty-four -- but full of spring and sparkle . 
He didn't look like what I thought of as an old man , and his lively and erudite speech made him seem even younger . 
He was one of the most prominent magazine illustrators in America ; ; you saw one of his paintings on the cover of one or another of the slick national magazines every month . 
Life had included him in its `` Modern American Artists '' series and had photographed him at his studio in the East Sixties ; ; the corner of it you could see in the photograph looked as though it ought to have Velasquez in it painting the royalty of Spain . 
I had a long talk with him . 
We went into Mrs. Monmouth's library , which had low bookshelves all along the walls , and above them a Modigliani portrait , a Jackson Pollock twelve feet long , and a gorgeous Miro with a yellow background , that looked like an inscription from a Martian tomb . 
The fireplace had tiles made for Mrs. Monmouth by Picasso himself . 
Like certain expensive restaurants , just sitting there gave you the illusion of being wealthy yourself . 
In the course of our talk , Askington mentioned that he spent part of each week studying . 
`` By yourself '' ? 
I asked . 
`` No , I take classes with different people '' , he said . 
`` I don't think I've reached the point , yet , where I can say I know everything I ought to know about the craft . 
Besides , it's important to the way a painter thinks that he should move in a certain atmosphere , an atmosphere in which he may absorb the ideas of other masters , as Durer went to Italy to meet Bellini and Mantegna '' . 
He made a circle with his thumb and fingers . 
`` Painting isn't this big , you know . 
It doesn't embrace only the artist , alone before his easel . 
It is as large as all of art , interdependent , varied , multitudinous '' . 
He threw his arms wide , his face shining . 
`` The artist is like a fragment of a mosaic -- no , he is more than that , a virtuoso performer in some vast philharmonic . 
One of these days , I'm going to organize a gigantic exhibition that will span everything that's being painted these days , from extreme abstract expressionism to extreme photorealism , and then you'll be able to see at a glance how much artists have in common with each other . 
The eye is all , inward or outward . 
Ah , what a title for the exhibition : The Eye is All '' ! 
`` What do you study '' ? 
I asked . 
I was fascinated ; ; just listening to him made me feel intelligent . 
`` I'm studying anatomy with Burns '' , he replied . 
`` Maybe you know him . 
He teaches at the Manhattan School of Art '' . 
I nodded . 
I had studied with Burns ten years before , during the scholarship year the Manhattan gave me , along with the five-hundred-dollar prize for my paintings of bums on Hudson Street . 
Burns and I had not loved each other . 
`` I'm also studying enameling with Hajime Iijima '' , he went on , `` and twice a week I go to a life class taught by Pendleton '' . 
`` Osric Pendleton '' ? 
I said . 
`` My God , is he still alive ? 
He must be a million years old . 
I went to a retrospective of his work when I was eighteen , and I thought he was a contemporary of Cezanne's '' . 
`` Not quite '' . 
Askington laughed . 
`` He's about sixty , now . 
Still painting , still a kind of modern impressionist , beautiful canvases of mountains and farms . 
He even makes the city look like one of Thoreau's hangouts . 
I've always admired him , and when I heard he was taking a few pupils , I went to him and joined his class '' . 
`` Yes , it sounds great '' , I said , `` but suppose you don't think of yourself as an impressionist painter '' ? 
`` You're missing the point '' , he said . 
`` He has the magical eye . 
And he is a great man . 
Contact with him is stimulating . 
And that's the trouble with so many artists today . 
They lack stimulation . 
They sit alone in their rooms and try to paint , and only succeed in isolating themselves still farther from life . 
That's one of the reasons art is becoming a useless occupation . 
In the Middle Ages , in the Renaissance , right up to the early nineteenth century , the painter was a giant in the world . 
He was an artisan , a man who studied his trade and developed his craftsmanship the way a goldsmith or a wood carver did . 
He filled a real need , showing society what it looked like , turning it inside out , portraying its wars and its leaders , its ugliness and its beauties , reflecting its profound religious impulses . 
He was a propagandist -- they weren't afraid of the word , then -- satirist , nature lover , philosopher , scientist , what you will , a member of every party and of no party . 
But look at us today ! 
We hold safe little jobs illustrating tooth-paste ads or the salacious incidents in trivial novels , and most of our easel painting is nothing but picking the fluff out of the navel so it can be contemplated in greater purity . 
A bunch of amateur dervishes ! 
What we need is to get back to the group , to learning and apprenticeship , to the cafe and the school '' . 
He could certainly talk . 
The upshot of the evening was that I got the address of Pendleton's studio -- or rather , of the studio in which he gave his classes , for he didn't work there himself -- and joined the life class , which met every Tuesday and Thursday from ten to twelve in the morning . 
It was an awkward hour , but I didn't have to punch any time clock , and it only meant that sometimes I had to stay a couple of hours later at the drawing board to finish up a job . 
After a short time , both George and Donald joined the class with me so they wouldn't feel lonely , and we used to hang a sign on the door of the Brush-off reading out to work . 
It was mostly for the benefit of the mailman , because hardly anybody else ever visited us . 
In a way , Askington was right . 
`` Stimulating '' was the word for it . 
I don't know that it was always as rewarding as I had expected it to be . 
Partly , it was because Pendleton himself wasn't what I anticipated . 
I had come prepared to worship at the feet of this classic , and he turned out to be a rather bitter old man who smelled of dead cigars . 
No , that isn't quite fair . 
Actually , there was a lot of force in him , which is why I kept on in that class instead of quitting after a week . 
Such a little thing to start with -- the car registration . 
`` Ida , where is the car license '' ? 
She asked . 
`` I can't find it in the glove compartment '' . 
`` Via must have it '' , I answered readily enough , recalling her last visit . 
`` Via '' , she was frowning . 
`` Why should Via have it '' ? 
Had she forgotten she had signed the car away , that whatever they mutually owned had been divided among the children ? 
I was silent . 
I didn't want to stir things up . 
`` I drive my own car by courtesy of Via '' ? 
`` I'm sure she'd turn it over to you , if you'd rather . 
You know that '' . 
She looked as if she were accusing me of some fraud . 
`` She must have taken the registration when she went to Walter's . 
I'll call her '' . 
`` No , thank you . 
I want nothing of Via's '' . 
Why should this suddenly assail her ? 
Walter was giving me checks for my pay , the household bills . 
Had she been in such a turmoil that this had slipped her mind ? 
`` What a fool I've been '' , she said quietly . 
`` I knew all this , but I paid no attention . 
I don't even own the house I'm standing in . 
I was so sure it was all temporary that we would all embrace , and then the lawyer would tear up all those things `` It narrows down down down and finally there is no way out . 
If I am not to be Mrs. Salter I am nothing '' . 
I suppose I should have paid attention to that half-murmured remark , but it seemed one of those extreme statements women under stress indulge in . 
I love you , I hate you , I feel like killing you and myself , and in the same sequence I love you I think you're the most wonderful the most noble and so on and on , meanwhile eating a good breakfast and dinner and enjoying living . 
So I went about my business . 
I made a lemon sponge , a light dessert , roasted a chicken , parboiled some frozen vegetables , so there would be something nice in the icebox for the weekend . 
`` Don't bother , Ida '' , she said . 
`` I have these appointments in town for Saturday , and I'll probably spend Sunday with Dolly or the Thaxters '' . 
At last , I thought , she's recovering her spirits . 
With this movie-to-be in London , and new faces about her there , she would soon be a more tranquil , a wiser person , all the better for her stay out here . 
I felt more cheerful , as if I had had a part in bringing her through to a greater tolerance of herself . 
And I went back to my own cottage to live my own little patch of life . 
It was foggy that evening , but the path to my house was so well grooved that I could feel my way , accustomed as I was to the dense mists that rise from the sun-warmed palisades of the river and sometimes last for days . 
In the morning the fog was still thick so that to go to the village I crept along with my headlights full on . 
I did notice a twinkle of light from the big house through the woods but as I had left a light on in my own house because of the fog I assumed Mrs. Salter had done the same before she left for town . 
I did my shopping , had my dentist appointment , and from there I went to the women's lunch at our parish church where we discussed plans for the annual Christmas bazaar , so that dusk was beginning to gather when I drove home in the late afternoon . 
But the next day -- Sunday . 
Why , when I drove down to church , didn't it speak to me , seeing the lights still on and the day crisp and clear ? 
Prisoners brought to the dock accused of murder or accident say they cannot remember , and reading the accounts of their testimony you cannot believe that the mind can remove , absent itself , unsee . 
When I came back from church at noon Mrs. Thaxter was turning into the Salter driveway . 
Even at a car's length I could sense that something was wrong , and so I followed her up to the turnaround in front of the house . 
Dolly Engisch was waiting there on the steps and she came running toward us . 
`` She's nowhere , nowhere '' ! 
She screamed , and both women ran up to the house , and I followed . 
The search began , in all the rooms , running upstairs , down , opening closets , talking , exclaiming in rushes and gasps . 
Everything was as I had left it the night before last -- her portfolio and bag for town , her lingerie and dress and shoes laid out only her mink coat was missing . 
And she . 
Then the telephoning began . 
I , who until that day before had been Mrs. Salter's friend , her equal , was the servant now . 
It was Dolly and Mrs. Thaxter who were calling Via , everybody . 
And when they spoke they spoke to each other and not to me . 
And after I brought them sandwiches and coffee I had to go back to my place in the kitchen and wait . 
Sitting in the kitchen I recalled every word Mrs. Salter said that could have been a sign to me . 
`` If I am not to be Mrs. Salter then I am nothing '' . 
Why didn't that alarm me then ? 
And when she returned from taking her guests back to New York she had said , `` All they talked about was Harvie Harvie this , Harvie that When they know the truth will they drop away from me , will I become a nothing '' ? 
And then I remembered a few years before after their return from a short trip to Rome I had heard her boast , over and over again , `` On the boat people liked me for myself '' . 
I had made a habit of calling her at night from my cottage , just to check . 
The last night I had called , but the line was always busy and it reassured me . 
I assumed it was one of those hour-long conversations with Dolly or Constance , she comfortable in bed . 
But it seemed not from what they were saying . 
Then was it a final desperate plea from her , to whom ? 
Hanging on and on past any man's patience some final stab of conclusion ? 
She was found the day after at the bottom of the cliff . 
I tried to believe that what must have happened was that , restless , disturbed by this telephone call or whatever , she walked out in the night , as she had a habit of doing . 
Sometimes she took the path that winds up around my cottage to the walk at the edge of the cliff . 
It's so romantic up there , she used to say , with the broad river gleaming in its moontrack like an enormous dark mirror and all the sounds of the night , so poetic . 
With all that warm rain and the fog it might have been as simple as a loosened rock , a misstep . 
But I didn't really think it was as simple as that , nor did anyone else . 
When a fisherman brought her up in his arms , still , small , as if she were a child asleep , I began to shudder with a terrible excitement , almost triumphant , that I still cannot account for . 
Was it a hysterical release from the long strain of vigilance of those weeks ? 
That at last the vigilance , the will gives way ? 
Or what was it that , before Via , Sonny , Walter and all , I began almost to dance with shuddering and cry out , `` I knew she'd do it ! 
I knew '' ! 
Everyone stared at me and drew back . 
Their eyes turned cold and accusing , even Via's . 
And they have never changed . 
At the same time that I thought I understood her at long last and pitied her , underneath this knowing had there burned unquenched by my pity a fire of hate , an enduring envy that burst out in that ghastly outcry ? 
Was that what had given way in me ? 
Even now I am appalled at how little anyone knows of what they really are . 
It is absurd of course to say that that one exclamation estranged me from the family I considered my very own , but there it hangs , a cooling void that broke our close connection with each other . 
At the time I was filled with self-pity at this separation , but in the years since I have come to understand that the sight of me was painful to them after that outcry . 
In my person they would always remember that last long time of me alone with her , so if they told themselves that I could have prevented it , I can understand that by now and love them still , because everyone must justify , have a scapegoat for what is not to be borne . 
It is not their avoidance that rankles ; ; it is when I meet someone who was a close friend of the family , and therefore of mine , and they nod to me so coolly and walk away , that it hurts . 
I could tell them , but no one ever asked , why I had cried out so triumphantly at the sight of her body . 
No , I forget Mrs. Mathias , who had been away visiting a married daughter when it happened . 
She haunted me ; ; she persisted in explaining how and why she had advised Mrs. Salter to return to the country . 
`` We all feel guilty '' , I turned away from her coldly . 
`` It was nobody's fault . 
She overplayed her hand '' . 
`` What do you mean '' ? 
She frowned . 
`` Why put such a high value on being top dog '' ? 
I added . 
It was coarse , almost insulting , this harsh appraisal , and she has never come to see me since . 
But suppose she had not taken Mrs. Mathias' advice and lived on like thousands of women in towns , dispossessed of love , hanging on to makeshifts , and altogether and finally arid . 
If she chose , and in that final decision discarded , what , above all , all of us value , life itself , must she not have risen to her fullest height , and transcending her murky self , felt at last the passion of a great moral decision ? 
If they say I could have stopped her it is because they are ignorant of her last weeks of self-examination , her search into herself and its conclusions . 
Yes , I had cried out that I knew she'd do it , but without my fully realizing it at the time , it was a cry of triumph for her , praise at her deliverance from pettiness and greed -- and guilt . 
She was finally at rest in truth , of her own proud free choice . 
At rest with my darling Ellen , the first Mrs. Salter . 
Mr. Salter came home . 
The funeral service was in the house , the Methodist minister , how clean and glistening his eyeglasses and his neat body standing beside that coffin with that doll inside , a stranger speaking to strangers the old sacred words , and the rain drumming incessantly in accompaniment , seven days of relentless rain that turned the ground to mud so the burial had to be postponed . 
I waited . 
Then Via called to say they had decided to cremate her -- as they had Ellen , the thought leaped to my mind -- and did I want to meet her at the funeral home the next morning . 
The coffin stood on trestles in a corner of the long low dimly lit funeral parlor , on its dark shining surface the sheaf of white roses I had ordered . 
I knelt , just for decency I thought at the time , but found myself whispering , `` Our Father which Art in Heaven '' And it was only after that that something unlocked in me and I felt a grief . 
Via was in the parking lot when I went outside . 
Together we waited in her car until the hearse moved out and we followed it down into the heavy traffic of New Jersey . 
By the time we arrived and entered the building sacred music was already swelling out into the chapel-like auditorium with its discreet symbols of religious faiths . 
Again I felt impelled to kneel , and reached back and pulled Via down . 
Something would come into her heart if nothing else the sounds of Bach would give her some healing . 
`` I had a rather small place of my own . 
A nice bachelor apartment in a place called the Lancaster Arms '' . 
`` Uhhu '' , she said , hardly listening as she studied her left eyelid . 
`` And then I had another place farther downtown I used as a studio '' . 
`` Uhhu '' . 
`` I'm not a man who has many close intimate friends , Carla '' , he said , wanting her to know all about him . 
`` Oh , I'd drink with newspaper people . 
I think I was what you might call a convivial man , and yet it was when I was alone in my studio , doing my work , that I really felt alive . 
But I think a man needs at least one intimate friend to communicate with '' . 
Pausing , he waited for her to turn , to ask a question . 
She showed no interest at all in the life he had led back home , and it hurt him a little . 
`` Well , what about you , Carla '' ? 
`` Me '' ? 
She asked , turning slowly . 
`` What about me '' ? 
`` Did you make friends easily '' ? 
`` Umm , uhhu '' . 
`` Somehow I imagine that as you grew up you were alone a lot . 
How about it '' ? 
`` I guess so '' , she said taking a Kleenex from her purse . 
When she had wiped some of the lipstick from her mouth , she stared solemnly at her image in the mirror . 
`` Are your people still alive '' ? 
He asked , trying to touch a part of her life Alberto hadn't discussed ; ; so he could have something of her for himself . 
`` You talk so well , Carla '' , he went on . 
`` You seem to have read so much , you have a natural gift for words '' , he added , trying to flatter her vanity . 
`` You must have been good at history at school . 
Where did you go to school '' ? 
`` What is this '' ? 
She asked , turning suddenly . 
`` Don't you know all about me by this time ? 
My name's Carla Caneli . 
This is my town . 
I sleep with you . 
You know something more about me every day , don't you ? 
Would you be happier if I made up some stories about my life , told you some lies ? 
Why are you trying to worry me '' ? 
`` I'm not trying to worry you '' . 
`` Well , all right then '' . 
The cleansing tissues she had been using had been falling on the floor , and he got up and picked up one , then another , hoping she would notice what he was doing . 
At home he had been a clean orderly man , and now he had to hide his annoyance . 
Was she just naturally sloppy about everything but her physical appearance ? 
He wondered . 
Would he have to clean up after her every day , clean the kitchen , the bathroom , and get down on his knees and scrub the kitchen floor , then hang up her dresses , pick up her stockings , make the bed while she lay around ? 
He straightened up , ready to vent his exasperation , then grew afraid . 
If he dwelt on the indignities he suffered he would lose all respect for her , and without the respect he might lose his view of her , too . 
`` What's the matter '' ? 
She asked suddenly . 
`` Nothing . 
Nothing at all '' , he said quietly . 
`` Let's go out '' . 
`` Are those the only shoes you have , Sam '' ? 
`` What's the matter with them '' ? 
`` The heavy thick soles . 
Look at them '' . 
`` They're an expensive English shoe for walking around a lot . 
I like them '' . 
`` Sam , no one around here wears such heavy soles . 
Can't you get another pair '' ? 
`` Maybe I could '' , he said , surprised that she could turn from herself and notice anything about him . 
`` I'll get an elegant pair of thin-soled Italian shoes tomorrow , Carla '' . 
`` And I don't know why you want to go on wearing that outfit '' , she said , making a face . 
`` What's the matter with it '' ? 
He had put on the gray jacket and the dark-gray slacks and the fawn-colored shirt he had worn that first night in Rome when he had encountered her on the street . 
`` Oh , Sam . 
You look like a tweedy Englishman . 
Can't you wear something else and look a little more as though you belonged '' ? 
`` I don't mind at all '' , he said , delighted with her attention . 
Changing his clothes , he put on his dark-blue flannel suit , and laid away the gray jacket with the feeling that he might be putting it aside for good . 
But it was a hopeful sign , he told himself . 
She no longer wanted anything about him to remind her of the circumstances of their meeting that first night in Parioli . 
That day they loafed around , just getting the feel of the city . 
They looked at the ruins of the old Roman wall on the lower Via Veneto , then they went to the Farnese Gardens . 
She had some amusing scandal about the Farneses in the old days . 
Then they took a taxi to Trastevere . 
`` There's a church you should see '' , she said . 
And when they stood by the fountain in the piazza looking at Santa Maria he had to keep a straight face , not letting on he had been there with Alberto . 
He let her tell him all about the church . 
Then they had dinner . 
All evening she was eloquent and pleased with herself . 
When they got home at midnight she was tired out . 
And in the morning when he woke up at ten the church bells were ringing . 
He had never heard so many bells , and as he lay there listening , he thought of her scolding him for his remarks when he had looked up at the obelisk and the church at the top of the Spanish Steps . 
It was a good thing that she clung to her religion , he thought . 
She might like to take him to St. Peter's . 
`` Carla , wake up '' , he said shaking her . 
`` It's ten o'clock . 
Aren't you going out to mass ? 
You could take me to St. Peter's '' . 
`` Uhhu '' , she muttered . 
`` Come on , you'll be late '' . 
`` I think I'll sleep in this morning '' , she said drowsily , and as she snuggled against him , he wondered if she ever went to church . 
Why did he want her to go to church ? 
He wondered Probably because it was a place where she might get a feeling of certainty and security . 
It would be good for her . 
It was too bad he had no feeling himself for church . 
Not his poor mother's fault . 
She would have been better off if she had stuck to her Bible . 
As for himself , he just didn't have the temperament for it . 
From the time he had been at college he had achieved a certain tranquility and composure by accepting the fact that there were certain things he could never know . 
Then he thought of those Old Testament figures on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel . 
Just figures out of a tribal folklore . 
Could he honestly believe it would be good for Carla to have those old prophets gripping her imagination now ? 
Being a woman though , she would take only what she needed from church . 
It was too bad he wasn't a Catholic himself . 
Or a Protestant , or one of those amusing dogmatic atheists , or a strict orthodox Communist . 
What was the matter with him that they all wearied him ? 
It was the times , he was sure . 
All the ideologies changing from day to day , right under his eyes , so how could a man look to any one of them for an enlargement of his freedom ? 
It was all too wearying . 
Look somewhere else . 
But where ? 
Just the same , he thought , pondering over it , it would be a good thing for a girl like Carla if she got up and went to church . 
A half hour later he got her up to go out for breakfast so the Ferraros , hearing them hurrying down the stairs , would think they were going to a late mass . 
It seemed to him that if the Ferraros felt sure of them , could place them , it would help him to feel more sure of himself with Carla . 
`` Since we're having coffee with them this afternoon '' , he said , `` I think I'll ask the daughter if we can pay her to come in every day to clean for us '' . 
And he waited for her to say , `` Oh , no , I can do it , Sam . 
There's so little to do '' . 
`` Why not '' ? 
She said . 
`` I'm not good at that kind of thing '' . 
`` This afternoon let's take an air with them . 
Let's be fine superior people of great dignity '' , he said as if he were joking . 
`` If you find it necessary , Sam , go ahead '' , she said , turning on the stair . 
`` I am what I am . 
I can't help it '' . 
Her words remained with him , worrying him for hours . 
He didn't know how she would behave with other people . 
When they walked into the Ferraro apartment , the old lady , bowing and smiling , said softly . 
`` Ciao , '' and put out her hand . 
Her little brown face wrinkled up , her brown eyes gleamed , and with her little gestures she said all the courteous things . 
Agnese , smiling too , said , `` 'ello '' , and then more slowly , `` I am happy '' . 
And they sat down and began their little coffee party . 
The Ferraros offered them biscuits with the coffee . 
Acting only as interpreter Carla , her hands folded on her lap , was utterly impersonal . 
She would turn to them , then turn to him , then turn again . 
Watching her , he felt like a spectator at a tennis game , with the ball being bounced back and forth . 
Signora Ferraro , bobbing her head encouragingly , asked Sam about Canada , having a special interest . 
Carla translated . 
The old woman had a nephew from North Italy , a poor boy from a lumber mill who had got tired of the seasonal unemployment , and who had migrated to Canada to work on the railway . 
For a year the boy had lived in the bush in a boxcar . 
Did many of Sam's countrymen live in boxcars in the bush ? 
Had Sam ever lived in a boxcar ? 
She wanted to know . 
Regretfully Sam explained that he had no experience with boxcars . 
Just the same , the old woman said , she would write to her nephew in his boxcar and tell him she had met a nice man from his adopted country . 
And Sam thanked her , and hoped he might meet her nephew back home , and asked her if she had any further news of the Pope . 
A very great Pope , this one , the old woman explained , her black eyes sparkling . 
An intellectual . 
But very mystical too . 
It was said that he had had a vision . 
Just as thousands that day in Portugal had seen the sun dancing in the sky , he had seen the same thing later in his own garden , and she turned to Agnese for confirmation . 
Agnese had been sitting quietly , listening with the serenity of the unaware . 
Now a little flush came on her pale homely face and enchantment in her eyes . 
The Holy Father would die soon , she said to Carla , so she could translate for Sam , although he had a brilliant doctor , a man who did not need the assistance of those doctors offered by the great rulers of the world . 
Yes , the Pope could die and quickly be made a saint . 
No , he was indeed a saint now . 
Nodding approvingly and swelling with importance , the old lady whispered confidentially . 
There was a certain discontent among the cardinals . 
The Pope , in the splendor of his great intellect , had neglected them a little . 
There would be changes made , and Signor Raymond should understand that when the Pope died it was like the end of a regime in Rome . 
Jobs would be lost and new faces would become prominent . 
Did Signor Raymond understand ? 
Indeed he did , Sam said solemnly , trying to get Carla's eye . 
Surely she could see that these women were her Italians , too , he thought . 
Devout , orthodox and plain like a family she might meet in Brooklyn or Malta or Ireland . 
But Carla's eyes were on Agnese whose glowing face and softening eyes gave her a look of warmth and happiness . 
And Carla , watching in wonder , turned to Sam . 
`` It means so much to her . 
It's like a flame , I guess '' , she said in a dreamy tone . 
But one night Dookiyoon moved in the direction of the women's lodge , where Shades of Night had gone to purify herself . 
With the blue flesh of night touching him he stood under a gentle hill caressing the flageolet with his lips , making it whisper . 
He saw her emerge suddenly , coming in her unhesitant fashion , her back stiff , her head erect , facing with contempt the night and whatever she would encounter , as if in her extreme disdain and indifference she would pass by all the outraged looks of those whom she might approach . 
In her dark , scornful fashion she proceeded to her destination , afraid of nothing , not even the evil spirits which kept her company in her time of bleeding . 
Seeing her come , he caught his breath , feeling his heart bounce in him , and turned away , afraid now . 
Even he , wanting her , afraid of her and not knowing how to press his suit , feared the evil presences in her metabolism more . 
His breath caught , and , trembling , he closed his eyes and stumbled off . 
Going , he saw as often before some queer , hideous yellow face over his head , shining and weird like the old images which had invested him at other times like those that appear sometimes near the eyeballs when they are perhaps pressed by the thumbs . 
He cried out to her , his back turned . 
Then he fled , not waiting to see if she minded him or took notice of his cry . 
But she heard him go . 
Yet she did not hesitate and only turned slightly , her neck tall as she looked in his direction , and continued on her way toward the end of the camp . 
Elsewhere others heard and stopped and waited , the women peering from their lodges then gathering in small , curious clusters . 
Early Spring came from her bed , from beside her half-drunk husband , Walitzee , and stood at the entrance way to her lodge hearing the mild commotion , the sound of hushed voices . 
Standing there she saw Shades of Night come through the trees and stop beside the lodge , silent , almost imperious , her body taut , simply standing without speaking or moving while the wife of Walitzee waited , perhaps denying the dread that moved in her . 
When at last she could suffer the insult no longer , nor face the girl's scorn , she said in a voice overloud : `` I shall call your father ! 
Go back where you can bring no harm , or I will go and get the old man from his bed so he can see your shame '' ! 
But the girl said only , `` Tell him I am here , that I have come '' . 
And it was not Pile of Clouds she meant . 
But now with real anger at last , something proud and indignant , Early Spring stood like a she wolf before her den and cried , `` I will not shriek at you ! 
I will tell you to go , not begging . 
Telling you '' ! 
And unsheathing the knife she used for curing hides she stepped away from the lodge , holding the knife at her side . 
`` You bring only wickedness '' , she said and it was not to a child any longer but to another woman who had come to skirt her lodge with the cunning hunger of a wild animal . 
Speaking in a low voice of loathing she went up to the girl , who stood with the same upright , scornful bearing and did not even look at the knife . 
`` Go take helsq'iyokom , your evil spirit , to the young boys '' , the woman said . 
`` They do not have to face battle . 
I will not let your evil in . 
I will simply kill you first . 
Now go '' ! 
The other women had come close now , their voices murmuring together until they stood buzzing in an angry knot , their threats mingling , rising , nagging at each other , each trying to make her indignation and anger felt . 
They picked up sticks and hurled them at the girl . 
The sticks fell like a shower around her and she felt them sting her flesh and send tiny points of pain along her thighs . 
They were all shouting at her as if she were the embodiment of the evil she brought . 
But she did not move , taking the words and the sticks in that old defiance of her extreme youth until suddenly Pile of Clouds came howling among them , swinging a great bullhide whip . 
`` Go back to your lodges '' ! 
He shouted . 
`` A pack of dogs makes less noise '' ! 
He made the long whip sing and snap around their heads so that they ran screaming , some tripping over themselves in their flight . 
And Early Spring seized the whip and said : `` If you must flog someone , let it be her , your daughter . 
Drive the demons out of her and teach her to stay away from my husband '' ! 
But the old man turned on her , jerking the whip from her hand . 
`` Get into your hovel '' ! 
He spat . 
`` Go back to that double-married man of yours who so parades his fine body among the young women . 
Keep him back , if you must tell me what to do . 
I will be the one to confront my daughter , not the wife of him who leads her to sin '' ! 
She retreated before the naked shame in the old man and the fury beyond it and sank into the darkness of her lodge where Walitzee stirred , mumbling , sitting up in a half stupor to say : `` What worrisome thing happens ? 
I thought I dreamed of wolves fighting '' . 
But she went to him and pressed herself against his nakedness , smelling the stale odor of the whisky he had stolen from TuHulHulZote . 
She said , `` There is nothing that concerns you here . 
Lie back and go to sleep . 
But do not dream . 
Do not let the wicked spirits enter your brain '' . 
He sank back , sighing , and was soon asleep again . 
Outside , the old man , beyond all the curses of the spirits his daughter bore , went to her and twisted the gnarled talons of his fingers in her hair and turned her and pushed her rudely ahead of him into the trees where the moon sent out a thousand arms . 
And , shoving her against a spruce , her back to him , he retreated with the whip and made it whine and crack in the damp air , shortening its arc until it narrowed to her flesh and the sound of it snarled and cracked , settling its own cruel demons on her shoulders while she stood as unchanged , as dark and motionless as ever , her eyes open and staring at the pale delineaments of the bark so close to her face . 
She said to him , her father , `` How was I begotten , in pain or joy ? 
Is it for me to be forbidden the flesh you made grow on me ? 
They all know your foolish name '' ! 
She stared at the pale tracings on the tree , hearing her breath refracted from it , her face close and touching at time the rough edges of the bark . 
She felt the lash bite and heard her father say in crazed monosyllables words which had no meaning , like , `` unnnt ! 
Sssshoo '' ! 
The sounds of an animal in rage and despair . 
Suddenly the lash stopped fighting the air and she heard Pile of Clouds say in his high , quavering voice : `` Did you follow me to see my shame ? 
Move from the line or I will settle the whip on you . 
Move ! 
Do you hear the anger of the whip's whine '' ? 
Turning , the girl saw Dookiyoon standing between , his narrow shoulders unbent , his arms hanging long and resigned . 
He said , `` Let me take her blows , for there are demons in me too '' . 
Then , without knowing why , she found herself running from them , fleeing wildly through the trees , dodging her own shadows until she came to a little hollow in the rocky ground with a big stone in the center behind which she knelt and hid , listening to the madness of her heart and wanting for once to cry . 
For a while the young men waited outside the lodge of TuHulHulZote , glorying in his harsh language as he talked with himself . 
He shouted like a hoarse old mastiff , his hair stiff and bristling . 
He ranted and prophesied the doom of his enemies , walking in circles in and out of his living place , drinking stolen whisky in great , gasping draughts until finally , incoherent and sick , he fell into his own oblivion . 
He amused the young men who had been silent long enough . 
But they could taste the appeasement of violence and retribution through his antics . 
Now they moved , rubbing their flesh alive again , disdaining the gloom they saw in the faces around them . 
They came out and held their games and races . 
It was they who held the future in their hands . 
They went into the sun together and paraded grandly in their war clothes , painting their faces with the sacred attis dug far off in the cave of skeletons . 
They danced the paxam wildly at night , the war dance , and dipped their arrowheads in the venom of rattlesnakes and rode their horses in swift maneuvers , firing their few guns in unison at some indeterminate signal . 
Walitzee was among them , and Sarpsis , and they wore red blankets which flew like broad wings in the air of their passing . 
And a very young one , Swan Necklace , tried to emulate them and followed timidly . 
Yellow Wolf was there , nephew of the young chief by an older brother long dead , in whom also the disordered chemistries of youth worked . 
He would spring bolt upright suddenly after sitting quietly with inaction , because something had boiled over in his fermenting juices . 
All the young men , Alokut among them , challenged them in matched racing . 
They raced and maneuvered for war , swinging their horses in single file and then abreast like cavalry . 
At times they would ride frenziedly through the camp , letting the women see their courage , how handsome they were in their regalia . 
Then again they would stand in circles making other preparations . 
They combed their hair and streaked it at the part and greased the bangs so that the hair above their foreheads stood rigid like the tails of sage hens making love . 
Walitzee whitened his leggings with clay , knowing the girl watched from her place in the trees . 
He saw himself in a superior reflection , and he was as a speeding arrow from the taut bow , hurtling with a mad grace , his maleness shining and scented with meadow rue . 
He was always aware of the women's eyes which followed him , admiring him . 
And the suspicious , envenomed eyes of Pile of Clouds . 
And those of Early Spring , haunted and now full of hurt and envy . 
He felt so much like laughing ; ; even like shouting and crying out from the hilltops from which he could descend as an eagle in a mad caper from the cliffs . 
He and Sarpsis planned a great parade with the young men . 
They would give one final testimony of their challenge to let the people see their arrogance . 
They would ride with streaming amulets , their colors ripening in the sun , shouting the last bellicosity of a nation in the throes of death . 
And so the sun came up again and for a moment its color was the young men's blood , shifting then into the full heat and outcry which ran with their hearts . 
They mounted their horses and rode off into the hills . 
The , young chief stared at the wall of his lodge , , listening . 
The sound rose on the other side of the hills , vanished and rose again and he could imagine the mad , disheveled hoofs of the Appaloosas , horses the white men once had called the Dogs of Hell . 
He saw them in fleet images as they came rolling and now burst across the ridge . 
Standing then with the others , peering into the sun , he saw the bright , multicolored legion , their hair flying like dark banners , only the thunder , the roll of drums , the mad cacophony of the hoofs accompanying them . 
They leaned into the wind and seemed like one thousand-legged monster hurtling and plunging until suddenly they rose straight in their saddles and in one terrifying voice shouted , ejaculated their grotesque cry of war . 
She was moving through a screen of hemlocks , in among the white birch and maples . 
The sounds from the quarry began to pulse in her ears . 
She stood , once more listening . 
She had never been here at this hour . 
She felt as if some dark , totally unfamiliar shape would clutch at her arm ; ; but she found the path she always used , the stubs of branches she had broken , those she had pushed aside ; ; and she walked easily now , and more slowly , until she could see the dark glisten of water beneath her . 
If I ever committed suicide , she thought , I would dive straight down from here -- and no one would find me for days . 
She smiled , and expertly let herself downward , holding this known root or that , her sneakers sliding in the leaves . 
She jumped out onto the flat expanse of rock and , seating herself , shook her short-cut brown hair and tilted her chin far upward . 
The reedy music of the frogs had faded , but presently it began again , growing in volume until it was vibrant . 
Julia felt at peace and drew her legs up and clasped her hands tightly around the bent knees . 
She had accomplished a miracle . 
This was her place . 
The hour couldn't change it . 
Only -- only -- her thoughts were a little strange . 
They were becoming confused . 
Perhaps it was because it was so late , and because she had no business to be here now . 
She was thinking of Paul a few weeks ago , in the Easter holidays , with her at one of those awful Friday Evening Dancing Class parties her mother had made her attend . 
`` Hello , Julie , how are you '' ? 
And then off he went so casually , to someone else with breasts better developed , more obvious in a lower-cut dress , someone without a mouthful of wire bands and an inability to find words that would hold him . 
I wish he was with me now , she thought , and that we were both the ages we are and doing what was once only pretense and acute embarrassment . 
Oh God ! 
I wish I were older or younger , Julia Bentley thought . 
I wish so much someone loved me . 
George Rawlings remembered seeing the door open sometime during the night -- Millie , in a white robe , standing like a ghost at the threshold . 
She had vanished ; ; he must have slept again . 
He was staring at the blue china lamp left on beside him . 
It seemed too much trouble even to reach for the switch ; ; but of course the impossible effort of leaving would have to be made on this Monday morning . 
This room was like a prison . 
He would not be indebted to Sam ! 
Below him , as if at the end of some remote tunnel , he heard the humming of a vacuum cleaner . 
His fingers fumbled across the bandages . 
They had left both of his eyes uncovered . 
Well , he told himself , let's put the show on the road . 
He was walking across to the bathroom . 
He drank a glass of water and gripped the sink with both hands . 
A fearful pain had come from his head , as if the water were coursing up through the blood vessels and expanding them . 
He recognized his jacket and trousers . 
The fabric was dark ; ; the stains weren't too apparent ; ; and there were his shoes , thank God , but his shirt was one terrible mess . 
He shivered , and then tore away the blood-soaked parts and wound the rest around his neck like a scarf . 
Sam would be amazed to find him gone . 
Millie would have to understand . 
She must have put his clothes in the closet . 
He found a lump rising in his throat because of that one simple act of tidiness . 
He was on the verge of tears . 
Alex Poldowski -- in a fashion he owed a debt to that effete gentleman . 
At least Alex had told him he wasn't dying . 
Perhaps George Rawlings would be better off dead . 
What time was it ? 
He peered at his wristwatch . 
Strange , it was still running . 
A quarter to seven . 
Too early for a vacuum cleaner , but probably Sam wanted the whole house in order before he came downstairs . 
He was kneeling to tie his shoelaces . 
His fingers felt absurdly thick and clumsy . 
He rose slowly and looked into the mirror on the inside of the closet door . 
He barely knew himself . 
This was some freak , two strands of adhesive tape across his nose , like ugly roots from the mass of gauze , suddenly moist over his cheekbones . 
The surface , however , was perfectly white . 
He was drinking another glass of water . 
It was after seven o'clock . 
He was supposed to be in court this afternoon , at City Hall . 
Who would take over ? 
He'd have to think , but the main thing , the imperative necessity , was to leave before Sam Bentley was up and about , and before Millie detained him with sympathy . 
He entered the hallway . 
He was actually walking down the stairs . 
A plane up in the sky , above the clouds , and this freakish wreck of a man desperately trying to get away . 
`` Father , is that you '' ? 
The voice issued from the cavern of the hall below . 
George did not reply . 
`` Is that you , Father ? 
Who's there '' ? 
For a moment he felt like a thief discovered . 
Then Julia appeared under the arch leading to the dining room . 
She stood gazing at him . 
`` Uncle George '' ! 
He was trying to smile at her . 
`` Gosh ! 
You shouldn't be up , should you '' ? 
`` I -- I was just leaving here , Julie . 
I'm all set . 
Just about to call a taxi '' . 
She was wearing some sort of gray blazer . 
She seemed overly tall , her brow knitted in concern . 
`` Well , at least you won't have to do that '' , she was saying . 
`` I'm about to leave myself . 
I'll drop you off '' . 
`` You're leaving '' ? 
`` I'm going back to school '' , she answered . 
`` Pietro's driving me . 
I'm just finishing breakfast . 
But have you told Mother you were going '' ? 
She asked him . 
`` No . 
I just don't want anyone disturbed , Julie . 
That's my wish . 
It's quite a big one '' , he added . 
Her face seemed to float in an implausibly bright shaft of sunlight . 
`` Well , won't you come in then , have a cup of coffee -- or something ? 
Or maybe a drink '' ? 
She asked , in a way that seemed oddly sophisticated , considerate , and yet perhaps partly scornful . 
He tried to see her face more clearly . 
`` No -- nothing at all '' , he said after a moment's hesitation . 
`` I'll just wait for you here '' . 
He leaned his head against the wood paneling behind him , but the vivid red images of pain inserted themselves against his eyelids . 
He raised them . 
Julia moved past . 
`` I have to say good-bye upstairs . 
I won't be long '' . 
`` As a great favor , Julie '' , he said , `` please don't mention you've seen me '' . 
`` Not to anyone '' ? 
`` No -- please . 
`` I'll call your mother as soon as I get home . 
It'll be so much easier '' . 
`` All right '' She was staring at him . 
`` I'm fine , Julie . 
Please , you just go ahead '' . 
She had disappeared . 
He could feel a pulse pounding against the bandages . 
He imagined Sam's voice : `` George , what the hell goes on '' ? 
I wouldn't have the strength to answer , he thought . 
Maybe I couldn't have called a taxi . 
He could hear the footsteps overhead . 
He saw the suitcase , which Julia was holding . 
He stood up . 
`` I'll take that , Julie -- for you '' . 
`` Oh no '' , she said . 
`` I can manage '' . 
She went ahead of him . 
Outside the Lincoln was parked . 
He could hardly believe he was getting in . 
Pietro was gazing at him in an insolent , disdainful fashion ; ; but that didn't matter . 
We'll drop Mr. Rawlings off in Ardmore '' , Julia said , and for the merest second George was reminded of her father's tone with servants . 
To the manner born -- odd to have such a thought at a time like this ; ; yet her inflection seemed forced or rehearsed . 
He could not stop to analyze . 
He had never felt particularly close to her . 
Carrie seemed more affectionate , but obviously Julia had respected his request . 
He took her hand . 
`` I wish I didn't have to go back to school '' , she said , and then , `` I wish you lived in New York . 
That's in the opposite direction '' . 
`` I wish I did '' , he responded . 
`` I wish I wasn't wearing this ridiculous costume , and that we could go to a theater together , or a nice restaurant , forget we knew '' He stopped speaking . 
`` Forget we ever knew what '' ? 
`` Oh , just sort of everything in general '' . 
She said nothing until Pietro had slackened their pace . 
`` I know you feel badly , but that sounds like such a queer thing for you to say '' . 
`` Does it '' ? 
He asked . 
`` Yes , perhaps . 
I'm supposed to joke about things , aren't I ? 
But sometimes life can be rather a disappointing business '' . 
His voice seemed thick and purposeless . 
He relinquished her hand . 
He could see the stone building where he lived . 
Just a few more steps . 
Abruptly he reached into his pocket . 
Yes , there was the key . 
`` Are you positive you'll be all right by yourself '' ? 
She asked him . 
For a moment he smiled . 
`` Yes , Julie dear . 
You've done me the greatest possible service . 
By myself I'll be fine '' . 
`` Take care of yourself then '' . 
`` I will . 
You , also . 
Don't work too hard '' . 
It was an automatic phrase ; ; as he crossed through the courtyard he regretted it . 
He should have discovered a more tender farewell . 
Someone shouted at him , `` Well ! 
Will you look at George Rawlings ! 
What happened to you '' ? 
`` I bumped into a door handle '' , George said . 
Someone laughed . 
George walked steadily ahead into his entry . 
His bandages seemed on fire . 
He had shut his door with the brass number screwed to it . 
In the kitchenette the raw whiskey made him gasp . 
Just one or two swallows , he told himself , enough to lessen some of the pain . 
He was telephoning . 
`` No , Millie , I'm home . 
No , really , right as rain . 
Tell Sam not to worry about the car . 
I'll get it hauled away . 
No , please -- no visit today -- I'll be asleep . 
For God's sake , don't worry . 
That upsets me more than anything . 
Yes , sure , I'll see the doctor -- this evening , if you insist . 
'' There was one more call to make . 
`` Joan , did I wake you '' ? 
He asked . 
`` Yes , I thought you'd probably be up . 
Look , sweetheart , some fool was . 
Happened to be driving somewhat intoxicated last night . 
Unfortunately it turned out to be me , but I wouldn't quite put it that way to the boss . 
Oh hell no , I'm not in a hospital . 
I won't be in town for a couple of days , though , and there's that case I was supposed to handle this afternoon . 
Too bad a jury isn't involved . 
I might struggle in for a jury . 
I'd win hands down . 
But I thought maybe Tony Elliott could pinch-hit for me . 
He'll understand -- you might give him sort of a tactful nudge . 
He's got all the facts . 
I wouldn't want to ask for a postponement -- it's really just a routine thing . 
What ? 
No , darling I'd rather you didn't come out '' . 
A smile pulled at the lower strip of adhesive tape . 
`` Don't even send flowers . 
I'll see you Wednesday . 
I'll bribe you with a nice '' -- He was about to say `` double martini '' but thought better of it . 
`` I'll take you out to dinner . 
Okay ? 
'' He had put down the receiver . 
A strange relationship between Joan Fulbright and himself . 
Who knew about it ? 
She lived alone in the older part of the city , in one of those renovated houses whose brick facade some early settler had constructed . 
She had two tiny rooms on the second floor . 
She was a clever girl , a most efficient secretary . 
She let him come and go as he pleased , or as it pleased her . 
In the office you might have thought them only casual friends ; ; yet if he said : Make an excuse yourself , come out here today , she would have been on the next train -- and , similarly , if she had been in need , he would have gone to her . 
`` They make us conformists look good '' . 
`` That's a peculiar way to think '' . 
It wasn't just the obnoxious birds that had ruffled her own feathers , of course ; ; she knew that . 
It was Jim's `` little '' sister Myra , the unreliable , irresponsible , forever flyaway , Myra . 
She's a year older than I am , Lucy told herself . 
`` Come , come '' , Jim said , jollying Lucy a little . 
`` I love you . 
Susan ready '' ? 
Lucy listened . 
Obviously , Susan was not . 
Upstairs , busy feet , showering like raindrops , pattered around her room . 
Susan would be visiting her grandmother for only a few days , but even at seven she was a prudent soul ; ; she always packed for a lifetime , just in case . 
`` Not yet . 
Every doll in the house must be going with her '' . 
`` She'd better step on it . 
It's a long way to Websterville '' . 
Jim's fine young face was an expressive one , too ; ; as he looked at her , it registered anxiety . 
`` You know '' , he said . 
`` Myra wanted me to thank you for taking Cathy . 
It'll be only a couple of weeks before she finds a home for them in Paris -- but even so , she wants you to know that she's awfully grateful '' . 
Lucy did not believe him ; ; Myra appreciated nothing . 
Jim had put the thanks in his sister's mouth . 
`` Darling '' -- she said , and the single word mingled love and exasperation in an equal blend . 
`` She should have told me herself . 
And will it be only a couple of weeks ? 
Remember what happened the last time '' ? 
Leaving Cathy with them , Myra had gone out to the Coast for a supposedly brief visit ; ; but she had stayed all winter , and Cathy had stayed all winter too -- with them . 
Lucy suspected that Myra would never have come home if Gregg , Myra's husband , hadn't gone out to fetch her . 
`` That was an awfully long two weeks '' . 
For an otherwise silent moment , Jim's keys jingled nervously in his pocket . 
`` But she promised -- This will be different '' , he said at last . 
`` You've got to admit she was smart to scare up this fine government job over there -- she'll get a home for herself and Cathy in no time . 
You'll see , Myra's settling down '' . 
On the defensive , he added , `` I wish you'd think what it must be like for her to be without Greg , to be a new widow , a young widow '' . 
`` It depends on the widow '' . 
Lucy had an idea that Myra loved it . 
And not for one moment did she believe that Myra had settled down . 
It seemed to Lucy that all their married life , she and Jim had been doing nothing but rescue his sister from the constant crises that were her way of life . 
Remembering that succession of disasters , she now considered Cathy , an ominous child-cloud on her horizon . 
It was not that she disliked Cathy . 
The youngster drew her , troubled her depths ; ; whenever Lucy saw her , she tried , without noise or fuss , to give her the warmth she had never had from Myra . 
But Cathy was Myra's responsibility , not hers . 
`` I wouldn't even be surprised '' , she said unhappily , `` if Myra tried to leave her with us forever '' . 
Myra loved big cities ; ; thousands of miles away -- in Paris , of all places -- she might forget she had ever been a mother . 
Lucy knew her too well to find it impossible . 
`` That's a horrible thing to accuse her of '' ! 
Jim was so indignant it was obvious that no matter what he said , he too had seen the looming specter of a forever-Cathy . 
He went to the foot of the stairs and shouted up , fiercely , `` Susan ! 
Susan ! 
Get moving '' ! 
A startled piping sound returned . 
`` Don't yell at Susan '' , Lucy said . 
Was it only a few nights ago that they had been standing together in front of the house looking at the moon-washed river ? 
Their arms around each other , they had been talking of the present and the future ; ; their talk and their feeling had been as deep and warm , as steeped in light , as the air around them . 
Then , from within the still , sleeping house , the telephone had rung ; ; Myra , with her news , was on the other end of the line . 
Jim turned back from the stairway and looked at her . 
His dark brows , which had been lowered in anger , smoothed . 
`` Please '' , he said . 
`` There isn't a chance of Myra's letting anything like that happen . 
Let's stay friends '' . 
But they weren't just friends , Lucy thought ; ; they were husband and wife , and Myra had no right muddling and chilling their marriage . 
The only thing that had ever come between them was that worthless , selfish sister of his . 
Lucy was sick of it . 
`` Well , at last '' , she said , because Susan was clattering down the stairs . 
Susan looked like an overwhelmed baby nurse ; ; her arms were straining with a burden of dolls . 
`` I'm ready '' , she announced . 
`` Do you need that big bundle '' ? 
Jim said . 
His voice had sharp edges , as though he knew very well Lucy and he were not friends at the moment . 
`` All that junk '' ? 
Susan stared at him with hurt blue eyes that gushed an instant grief ; ; to her , each of her dolls was a real person with a living heart . 
`` Now , now '' , Lucy said , approaching Susan with a handkerchief , mopping skillfully . 
`` Your father didn't mean it , Susan '' . 
She gave Jim a quick , shape-up look of warning . 
`` She'll take every one of them '' . 
Jim groaned , but he lifted Susan's suitcase and said , in a gentler tone , `` Sure -- the entire thousand . 
And when you get back from Grandma's , Cathy will be here to play with you . 
Nice '' ? 
`` No '' , Susan said , grappling with her outsized armload of dolls with a Scrooge-like effect . 
And at this point , Lucy thought , there should be a lecture on little cousins' sharing dolls -- but she could sympathize with Susan ; ; there ought to be a limit to sharing , too . 
That was one more reason she didn't look forward to Cathy's visit , short or long ; ; the last one had been a Lilliputian war . 
She suspected that Cathy had been competing with Susan for attention that she had never had . 
`` Well '' , Jim said , out of the silence , `` let's get going , dolls and all '' . 
When the car , with Susan's hands waving wildly from the rear window , disappeared down the driveway , Lucy stood looking after its pale dust . 
The day was brilliant around her -- flower-scented , crisp with breeze -- yet her inner turmoil darkened it . 
She had let Jim go with a chilly good-by , a chillier kiss . 
She was sorry , and angry at herself , because never in their life together had she done that . 
She turned and began to walk toward the house . 
At the feeding station , the raffish group of cowbirds again bobbed and gobbled over the ground , but now , gorgeous among them , was a beautiful red cardinal , radiant in its feathered vestments . 
The handsome bird was solitary ; ; its mate must be at home , silently guarding their nest . 
She had better stay there , Lucy thought ; ; the sly female cowbirds took instant advantage of nests without sentinels . 
Well , Lucy ? 
She said to herself , abandoning the cardinals and the cowbirds . 
She had a day of things to do ; ; among them , she had to prepare the guest room . 
How long would it be occupied ? 
She wondered , with a baffled feeling of helplessness . 
As long as the unscrupulous Myra chose ? 
For a moment , her mind returned again to the strange , flying world of birds , and she said to herself . 
It isn't only birds that dump their children in other people's nests . 
In the sunshine of late afternoon , Lucy stood looking at the ready guest room . 
There were new yellow curtains , bright as a child's life ought to be , a new bedspread , lively with hopping rabbits , and hanging from the ceiling was an airy Mother Goose Mobile , spinning slowly in the breeze . 
A row of little hangers waited for a child's clothes in the neatly empty closet ; ; since Myra had always put most of Greg's money on her own back , Lucy suspected that no more than a few of that long row would be needed . 
The closet was faintly fragrant with lavender , and as Lucy shut the door an unhappy memory slipped into her mind , like a lavender ghost : Greg's house , on the day he was buried , and the child , pale , silent , baffled , watching the funeral guests with panicky eyes . 
Many times since his death that memory had worried and troubled her . 
Out in the hall , the upstairs phone shrilled , and the small ghost vanished . 
When she picked up the receiver , her mother's cheerful voice was there . 
`` Websterville Junction calling '' , she said . 
`` I just thought I'd let you know . 
Myra dropped Cathy this morning , and Jim picked Cathy up and left Susan a few hours ago . 
I'd have phoned sooner but I've been busy '' . 
`` I can imagine '' ! 
Susan was an active character ; ; for Mother to be able to call , Susan must be napping now , surrounded by her multitude of dolls . 
Lucy drew out the chair and sat down ; ; she relaxed a little , and some of the tension went out of her . 
You could think yourself as grown up as Methuselah , yet the maternal voice still kept its comforting magic . 
`` How was Cathy '' ? 
`` Subdued . 
But Myra was the merriest widow I ever saw '' . 
On her way to the airport , on her way to Paris -- you bet , Lucy said to herself . 
`` I've been fixing up the guest room for Cathy '' . 
There was a momentary pause , and then her mother said , `` How long is she supposed to stay '' ? 
`` Just for a couple of weeks , till Myra finds a place for them '' . 
`` Well '' -- This time there was a long silence , while the telephone hummed faintly with a voiceless life . 
Puzzled , Lucy stared at the flowered wallpaper ; ; her mother was forthright ; ; she was not usually given to mysterious silences . 
Was she thinking along the same lines Lucy was -- that it was quite possible Cathy might be left with her for good ? 
`` You mean once Myra gets to Paris '' ? 
Once the soft , pretty moth found the bright light she had always wanted ? 
Suddenly , seekingly , Lucy asked , `` Mother , do you know something I don't know '' ? 
Again there was that curious pause , and then her mother said , `` I guess I do . 
Just before Myra left -- She was saying good-by to Cathy , and she didn't realize I was near '' . 
She hesitated , as though hunting over words and ways of putting them . 
`` Cathy was in tears , of course , and I heard Myra say , ' Now be good , and at Christmastime I'll send you a wonderful present from Paris ' '' . 
Shocked speechless , Lucy sat there . 
Then she jumped to her feet , the elastic phone cord uncoiling like a black snake . 
`` Christmastime ! 
'' Then it was no bogey she had dreamed up ; ; it was only too true . 
Myra had no intention whatever of sending for Cathy in two weeks . 
For a moment , anger darkened the hallway about her , and when she found her voice , anger thickened it . 
`` That does it '' ! 
She said . 
`` I'll keep Cathy for two weeks . 
Then , if Myra does nothing about fetching her , I'll pack her right back to her mother -- if I have to take her myself '' ! 
Her hand tightened on the receiver . 
`` And that's what I'm going to tell Jim '' . 
For Lucy , the day's nagging to-and-fro had come to an abrupt end . 
As she hung up , she saw through the hall's open window the purple-black flying of the cowbirds' wings , and heard their grotesque singing . 
Cowbird Myra ! 
She's not going to get away with it . 
Cathy is tired , Lucy thought , watching them come slowly up the path . 
The child's thin legs were plodding . 
She trudged along slowly , both hands clutching a tired teddy bear . 
She was at the moment just a small , walking package , being delivered to her aunt's and uncle's house . 
Unlike Susan , she was traveling light ; ; the worn teddy bear , a tiny suitcase that Jim carried , and the clothes she wore , were all she had . 
Lucy glancing at the miniature case , knew there would not be enough in it for the shortest of stays ; ; they would have to buy things for her . 
She opened the door . 
Unimpressed , the dog plopped on the sand . 
Quint couldn't blame Maggie for disbelieving . 
For eleven days they'd done the same thing , leaving the cottage quietly before breakfast , before Esperanza Beach got jammed with tourists and beach balls and show-offy lifeguards . 
The swirling sand made Quint's limp more pronounced . 
They walked slowly past the sherbet-colored cottages -- eleven lemon , nine mint , seven orange -- around the curve to a deserted stand with an `` Eats '' sign jiggling in the wind . 
Now they were in friendly territory . 
Nobody around . 
Nothing but sand and a ridge of rocks sloping jaggedly to the water's edge . 
His rock was to the right of a V-shaped inlet , a big , brown , lumpy rock trailing seaweed whiskers . 
His rock was special because no one on the beach could see him here . 
Here he was enclosed and safe . 
( If a dragon or a sea monster came along , didn't he have a red Swiss hunting knife on his belt -- ten blades and a corkscrew ? 
) Here was a perfect place to lie down and make believe . 
He was Canute controlling the waves . 
He was a knight of the Round Table , `` Sir Quintus the Brave '' , slaying evil spirits and banshees and vampires and witches with warty noses . 
( One good thing about a suit of armor , his leg wouldn't show . 
) He was the first astronaut on the moon , chosen because of his small size and intrepid nature . 
He was six feet one like his father , with big hands and a hairy chest , a man the weak and persecuted would turn to . 
Fearless . 
Every night when he wanted a drink of water , didn't he practice being fearless by not turning on the bathroom light ? 
A dark bathroom can be pretty scary , and he'd creep back to bed , proud of himself , thinking : Tomorrow , for sure , I'll go down to the rock and keep my promise to Dad . 
He hadn't intended to make the promise . 
It happened two weeks ago , the night before his father left on a business trip to South America . 
Every piece of the nightmare was clear , in place ; ; and when he woke up , his father was saying , `` Stop screaming , Quint . 
It's all right . 
Stop shaking '' . 
He could remember the feel of his father's big hands , the thump of his father's heart sending out signals -- regular , like radar . 
`` Let's talk about the beach . 
Son . 
While I'm gone you get brown and fat as a pig , hear ? 
Look , I can put two fingers between the cords in the back of your neck . 
Dr. Fortman says swimming would help your leg . 
He says you're limping more than you need to '' . 
`` How does he know ? 
Big dumb nut . 
He never had polio '' . 
In the light from the bedside table his father looked so worried that the promise spilled out . 
`` You just wait , Dad . 
When you get back I'll probly be swimming better than Victoria . 
Wait and see , Dad '' . 
Victoria was fourteen months younger than Quint , a head taller , and could lick any boy or girl on the beach . 
He called her `` Fatso '' . 
She called him `` Stuck-up -- that's why nobody plays with you , Mister Stuck-up '' . 
Or , what was worse , she prayed for him out loud at bedtime : `` Please , Lord Gord , please give my brother the strength to go swimming like he promised '' . 
`` She's got a nerve '' . 
Quint said now to the clouds . 
Strength began to zip up and down his chest . 
He felt strong as a giant . 
He unlaced his high brown shoes and took off the metal brace on his leg . 
He wadded his sweat shirt into a ball and stripped down to his swimming trunks . 
`` Goolick , goooolick '' , creaked a sea gull . 
`` Aw , shut up '' , he said . 
He stood on the rock , a skinny , dignified boy surrounded by the ocean . 
The wind bored a hole between his shoulder blades , and when he looked at the choppy waves coming and going and crossing each other he could see his head down there , bleeding , wedged between the rocks and the waves . 
I can't go in . 
I'm scared of the nightmare . 
Shivering , he put on his clothes . 
And shivering with shame , he crawled to the narrow end of the rock and spat into the water . 
`` Watch it , big shot '' , a hoarse voice yelled back . 
She was holding on to his rock with one hand . 
She smelled of peppermints . 
She wore a bathing suit like his mother's , no straps on the shouders . 
`` Why didn't you duck '' ? 
He snapped . 
`` This is my rock '' . 
`` Isn't '' . 
`` Is '' . 
`` Isn't '' . 
`` Is '' . 
She was sore as a boil . 
`` Ever hear of squatter's rights '' ? 
`` Sure . 
They started with the Kansas-Nebraska Bill of eighteen '' -- `` Mister Big Britches , aren't you '' ? 
`` I'm Mark Gordon Peters the Fifth . 
They call me Quint '' . 
`` Then why don't you stop squinting '' ? 
`` I said Quint . 
That's short for Quintus . 
Quintus in Latin means '' -- `` I can speak both kinds of Latin , smart aleck '' . 
Her cough sounded like cloth ripping . 
`` You shouldn't smoke so much '' , he said , unconsciously imitating Victoria's holier-than-thou voice . 
`` I don't smoke '' . 
She was horrified . 
`` Do you '' ? 
`` Hell , yes '' . 
Not having said `` hell '' before , he stumbled a bit before gathering momentum . 
`` Sometimes eleven , fourteen a day '' . 
`` If I was your mama , I'd wop your tail off '' . 
`` My mother never wops me . 
I've got this leg brace '' . 
She seemed so unimpressed that he was obliged to roll up his blue jeans so she could see his brace . 
`` Dingy-looking '' , was what she said . 
`` Why don't you paint it red and white like a barber pole '' ? 
`` Because maybe I won't have to wear it always . 
Dr. Fortman says if I exercise my leg more , maybe I can use a cane when I'm big '' . 
She spouted a mouthful of water into the air . 
`` A cane's mighty handy . 
Someone's walking past , you want to stop him , zoooop , snag him around the neck with the crook in your cane . 
Or say a waiter brings you a bowl of soup with a dead fly in it -- all you got to do is bannnnnng , stooooomp your cane on the floor . 
Hey , will you look at that '' ? 
Maggie had shaken himself awake and was licking the sand off his stubby whiskers and his long plume of a tail . 
`` That's some dog . 
What kind '' ? 
`` Part collie , part wire-haired terrier '' . 
Quint glared . 
He always did when people asked . 
`` Holy mackerel , that's the most unique dog I ever saw '' , she said firmly . 
`` His real name's DiMaggio , only we call him Maggie because he has to take tranquilizers . 
He's braver than he looks . 
He's been sick lately . 
Last Tuesday he went on a ham jag '' . 
`` A what '' ? 
He would have told her , but Victoria was yodeling . 
That meant `` Mama wants you Quint . 
Come home or I'll come find you '' . 
`` I gotta go . 
Even though this is my rock , you can use it sometimes . 
I come early in the morning '' . 
`` So do I . 
See you around , Mister Squint '' . 
That was how they started being friends . 
They met next morning and all the mornings thereafter . 
Same time , early , before the fog burned off , because she didn't like the sun ; ; it made her blister . 
Her name was Sabella , and the strip of seaweed around her neck was an emerald necklace the King gave her as a token of his undying love . 
`` You going to marry the King '' ? 
`` No . 
He's got a long beard and picks his teeth with a fork . 
My hair is what he's nuts about . 
Naturally curly hair runs in my family . 
Personally , I prefer straight hair like yours , but as they say on the Continent , ' What can one do ' '' ? 
`` Which continent '' ? 
`` Name one , I been there '' . 
Japan , she said , smelled pugh because people let dead fish lie on the beaches till the fish got hard as rocks ; ; then they scraped off the mold and made fish soup . 
Pugh . 
Camels in Tripoli had harelips . 
Near Galway the tinkers drove their caravans down to the beach and sang and drank and fought all night . 
As for dancing -- holy mackerel , he ought to see the gypsies in Jerez ; ; they danced on the sand till your blood got hot and danced with them . 
`` Really '' . 
Quint smothered a yawn . 
She made better pictures than any book he'd read , but he didn't say so . 
Artfully , as the days went by , he found occasion to tell her that his father had won the Navy Cross in the Korean War ; ; that his baby sister could spit up through her nose when she felt like it ; ; that he personally had an IQ of 141 and was currently reading the Mushr to Ozon volume of the encyclopedia . 
`` Books are for schnooks '' . 
She skipped a piece of water at him and laughed , a funny , hoarse laugh he liked to hear . 
Nobody ever appreciated his jokes as much as Sabella . 
( `` What did one tonsil say to the other tonsil ? 
Let's get dressed up -- the doctor's taking us out tonight '' . 
And `` What time did the Chinaman go to the dentist ? 
Tooth-hurty '' . 
) Encouraged by her giggles he imitated Maggie who was crazy about ham . 
He described the ham decorated with pineapple and cherries , cooling on the porch . 
He snuck up on the ham like Maggie , gumming it with soft , stumpy teeth , then panting with thirst , lapping up the water in the lagoon , swelling up like a balloon , staggering home to be sick , while his mother said , `` That does it . 
That dog has to go '' . 
`` Say , you're quite a comic '' , Sabella said admiringly . 
`` Ever thought about going on the stage '' ? 
He hadn't . 
But it was such a nice thought that he nodded his head . 
`` Either that or a veterinarian '' . 
`` Better make up your mind , son '' , Sabella said . 
`` You can't serve cod and salmon '' . 
Sometimes they argued . 
She said sharks have no bones and shrimp swam backward . 
His encylopedia agreed with Sabella . 
Next morning he tied a bunch of sea daisies with string and threw them across the V-shaped inlet to the rock where she was swimming around . 
Boy , could she catch ! 
Like Willie Mays in the outfield . 
`` Nobody gave me flowers before . 
Thank you , Quint '' . 
Her face turned pink with pleasure and a smothered cough . 
`` You can always tell a real gentleman -- they got a certain je ne say quok '' . 
Sometimes they didn't talk at all . 
He daydreamed on the rock while she swam and splashed around . 
Once when she asked why he never went swimming and he answered , `` Don't feel like it '' , he was tempted to tell her about being scared . 
But Victoria began yodeling just then and he went home , carrying Sabella in the back of his head , not thinking about her , just knowing she was there , smiling , smelling of peppermints . 
As for his promise -- oh , he had plenty of time , buckets of time . 
Wednesday morning it happened . 
They were eating breakfast . 
`` We beseech thee , Lord Gord , to bless this food '' -- that was Victoria saying grace while the baby sprayed raisin toast on her plastic bib . 
Same old breakfast till the phone rang , making his mother's voice shake with excitement . 
`` Your Daddy's in San Francisco '' , she told them . 
`` He says he'll be here on the one-o'clock plane . 
Fifteen days early -- isn't that wonderful '' ? 
`` Yeah , keen '' . 
A cave seemed to be opening in Quint's stomach . 
`` Children , we'll have to get organized . 
The baby can have an early nap . 
Victoria , I want you to -- '' Quint closed the screen door quietly so Maggie wouldn't be scared . 
`` Hurry up , we're late '' , he said , noticing with a chill how gray the sky was this morning , the fog like a rope along the horizon , the choppy waves sending off sheets of blue and Kool-Aid green . 
The cave in his stomach hurt . 
He had to go into the water . 
He'd tell Sabella about the nightmare . 
It had started two years ago when he was in an iron lung . 
What caused it , he didn't know . 
The metal collar gagging his neck ? 
Sweating so much ? 
The unbearable weight on his chest ? 
All of it together meant drowning . 
The first time the nurse took him out of the lung , she said if he got frightened , she'd put him back for a second . 
When Bobbie Evans smashed up his car , the Jaguar his wife Linda had given him for his last birthday , and himself quite thoroughly with it , driving back from an afternoon's golf at Oakmont , it seemed to mark the end of a long , miswritten chapter in the social life of the community . 
Linda looked remote yet lovely in black , and everyone held his or her breath . 
Not that Linda was heartless , not that she would do anything prematurely or in bad taste any more than John Cooper would . 
Hadn't Linda been a perfect wife to Bobbie , who was the least bit of a disappointment all these years ? 
Wasn't John Cooper even more attractive at forty-seven than he had been twenty-five years earlier ? 
And wasn't John's wife , Edythe , even more appalling , if possible ? 
Didn't John Cooper , after all this time , deserve something better of life ? 
Wasn't it adult and realistic to look at it that way ? 
And romantic ? 
Everybody knew that John Cooper had married Edythe on the rebound . 
It was the kind of thing that could ruin a man's life , and it was a tribute to John's strength of character and very real business ability that it hadn't ruined his . 
`` Of course , there was nothing you could do , but you still ought to be ashamed of yourself for letting it happen '' , Mousie Chandler said to Linda Stuart . 
`` Poor John '' ! 
Linda accepted the reproach , which was something she did rarely in all her life and most rarely in that summer of 1936 when she was by all odds the prettiest and brightest young woman west of the Allegheny Mountains , and John was surely one of the handsomer and brighter young men around Pittsburgh . 
For it had been John and Linda ever since she had come out two seasons before at the Golf Club to the goggle-eyed admiration not only of the stag line but even of her fellow debs . 
John had claimed her from the stag line , a young man a year out of Dartmouth with skiing crinkles still around his eyes . 
You saw them always together those years . 
You talked about John-and-Linda as an entity . 
John-and-Linda were at Longue Vue last night ; ; John-and-Linda drove to Conneaut in three and a half hours . 
Then there was a spat over something , as there had been lovers' spats before ; ; only this one didn't heal . 
You still said `` John-and-Linda '' , but as if you were speaking of a national catastrophe such as the depression or Dillinger . 
It got worse instead of better . 
First , it came out after Mr. Cooper's will was settled -- he had died the year before -- that John and his mother weren't rich any more . 
And then there was Linda's engagement to Bobbie Evans . 
There was no connection between the two events , because Bobbie wasn't rich , either , though he was more aggressive than John . 
He was a bright and handsome young man from New York , who worked for the same steel company as John did . 
Some people said Linda had just announced the engagement to jolt John into some action , but when John came home from a business trip to Cleveland with Edythe , with Edythe his bride , it could no longer be John-and-Linda even to sentimental wishful thinkers . 
It wasn't even John and Edythe . 
It was simply Poor John . 
There was nothing specifically wrong with Edythe , but there was absolutely nothing right about her either . 
Mousie Chandler had been to school with her someplace near Baltimore and tried to explain rather than defend her to the gang having lunch at Horne's . 
`` Well , you shouldn't underestimate Edythe '' , Mousie said . 
`` I know she gives the impression of being shallow and frivolous and scatterbrained . 
She is frivolous and scatterbrained , but she really isn't shallow '' . 
Bobbie and Linda looked magnificent at their wedding . 
John was at the church with Edythe . 
She giggled during the ceremony , and Mousie Chandler , who was one of Linda's bridesmaids , said John glared black as death at her . 
`` As if he were choking '' , she said . 
`` Poor John '' ! 
Edythe settled down to become a social myth and a horrible example . 
Her hair never seemed to be in place and her skirts were never quite the correct length . 
She didn't have a bad shape when you caught her at the pool at Longue Vue , but her bathing suits were far from smart . 
And you didn't see her much at Longue Vue or anywhere , for John had drifted away from the gang . 
Mousie said it was because he was too proud to stand pity . 
Others thought he couldn't stand seeing Linda , Mrs. Bobbie Evans , still so beautiful , so much in command of everything . 
There were less-dramatic reasons too . 
John's mother died not long after his marriage , and there was even less Cooper money left . 
John sold the big old place in Sewickley and bought a smaller house in Fox Chapel . 
He was not reduced to poverty , but his job at the steel company had become a real job and not a method of passing the day . 
John was good at his job . 
It probably wasn't hard for him to keep his nose to the grindstone with nothing but Edythe to come home to . 
Though that may be unfair since Ben Cooper , John's first son , came along early in 1938 , the cutest baby you ever saw and a blessing that he looked all Cooper from fontanel to pink toes , nary a trace of Edythe . 
But the continuing charm of the other children -- Sally in 1940 and Jack in 1944 -- and all John's success at his work only made Edythe's dizziness and general uselessness more glaring . 
She never could fit into a crowd which had known , which still knew and admired Linda . 
When there was bridge at Edythe's house , the cards shuffled like wet graham crackers and the food probably was wet graham crackers . 
She managed a missionary drive for the church once and got the books so confused that old Mr. Webber , the eldest elder , who'd never donated more than five dollars to anything , had to cough up five hundred dollars to avoid a scandal in what Edythe called `` the bosoms of the church '' . 
John did find the missing checks and money afterward , and the drive was actually oversubscribed , which was a real bit of luck for the missionaries . 
Being an intelligent man , John must have guessed what everyone thought about Edythe , but he never let on by so much as a brave smile . 
Poor John was the kind of stock that keeps a bargain without whimpering and maybe bends over backward to keep a bad one . 
He was an attentive and generous husband , overgenerous , a lot of people felt , because they knew that money must be a problem to him . 
But he got ahead in business : on leave from his job to an important Washington assignment during the war ; ; after the war back to the heir apparency of the steel company . 
The Coopers saw Bobbie and Linda socially , but no more than was necessary . 
Bobbie had been successful , too , though he didn't match John's pace , and after all he didn't need to , with all the Stuart money . 
He and Linda settled down to being social leaders , and Linda managed to look a little more beautiful each year . 
And then came the hairpin turn , the smashed Jaguar and Linda , mourning alone and lovely . 
Everyone held his or her breath . 
`` Don't think Linda couldn't have got John back any time , if she'd tried '' , Mousie Gordon , who had been Mousie Chandler , said between bites of a chicken sandwich at a luncheon table at Le Mont . 
`` Now you know she could've , but she isn't that kind of girl . 
But now -- well , it would be a blessing , I think . 
Poor John '' . 
Linda Evans felt more wretched than she had ever dreamed Bobbie's death could move her to feeling . 
What she felt was a bone-deep loss with a sense of waste to it , not so much sorrow for handsome , ambitious Bobbie , but for the lost years that had been brought into high relief by his death . 
She knew what people were thinking ; ; it was what she had been thinking herself . 
It was up to her to save Poor John , dear John , to undo the wrong she had done , but she trembled at the decision as at the brink of a cold stream . 
There was no one who would blame her or John ; ; she could be sure of that . 
It might be rough on Edythe at first , but Linda and John between them could make a settlement handsome enough to soothe her , to send her back to Cleveland or anywhere . 
And Linda felt capable of capturing the affection of the children , anxious even , since she and Bobbie had had none of their own . 
It would be good for them to have a mother they need not be ashamed of . 
Linda would have to wait , she knew . 
But what was a decent six months or so after the more than twenty years gone by ? 
Years of watching while Poor John struggled without the help and understanding of the kind of wife a man needed to get ahead . 
Of course , he had done wonders . 
Alloy steels and regular steels had different sales departments at Smith & MacIsaacs , where John and Bobbie both worked . 
Bobbie had been head of the alloy division , while John was just another good salesman in the regular branch . 
So when old Mr. Lovejoy , the company president , talked about putting in a single sales manager for both branches after the head of the regular steels had gone with Carnegie-Illinois , it looked like the perfect chance for Bobbie . 
For Linda knew how to help her husband , not just the Stuart-family contacts but also the little dinners for Reuben Lovejoy . 
She was almost sick when Bobbie came home with the news that Poor John had won the job . 
`` What did you do '' ? 
She asked Bobbie . 
`` You must have done something , something wrong . 
Lord knows I had everything set for you '' . 
Bobbie said something about damned Pittsburghers sticking together , and Linda got angry at him . 
They had their first real fight , and Bobbie went off to get drunk . 
Linda dragooned her uncle , Donald Murkland , into a lunch the next day to find out what had happened . 
He was a director of S. & M. and must have been in on the decision . 
But jolly old Uncle Donald would tell her no more than that Bobbie had certainly been considered for the job , but there were factors in a large company which outsiders and even some insiders couldn't understand . 
He didn't tell her of the long board meeting where Bobbie and John were weighed one against the other . 
`` I'm behind John Cooper '' , Mr. Lovejoy said finally . 
`` I think we're agreed that he and Evans are equal in ability , so we have to look at the thing in terms of incentive . 
`` Now , I believe Poor John'll work just a little harder . 
With that wife of his , I think he feels every chance he gets is his big chance . 
Bobbie , with Linda behind him , will have plenty of other opportunities . 
And also , the money can't mean as much to Bobbie . 
`` Bobbie will take the job as his just reward and work hard at it ; ; Poor John will take it as a miracle and have every other independent steel company sitting up nights worrying about us '' . 
Most of the directors nodded . 
Uncle Donald Murkland found himself nodding agreement too . 
After the surprise was over , Linda was almost as pleased as anyone with John's good luck , though she agreed with Bobbie's decision some months later to move to Funk Furnaces . 
The job at Funk wasn't particularly better , but it got him away from being subordinate to John and assured him steady advancement , since Funk was owned to a large degree by various branches of Linda's family . 
Poor John's rise continued to be meteoric . 
When he was made a vice president only a year after the new sales job , a leading business magazine ran his photograph with a brief biography in a series on national business leaders of the future . 
She called then to say she had a baby-sitter for that night . 
`` Shirley appreciated the chance to make some money . 
Such a nice little thing -- lives right in the building '' . 
`` That's swell '' , I said sweetly . 
I could get along without that three dollars . 
In some ways it was worth being out the money -- just knowing I was no longer obligated to Nadine ! 
It was past midnight and we were in bed when the phone rang . 
I stumbled through the hall , wondering who would be calling at this hour . 
I answered to find Nadine at the other end . 
`` You scared me half to death '' , I said shakily . 
`` What's wrong '' ? 
`` Janice , nobody answers at the apartment '' ! 
Her voice came shrill . 
`` I'm absolutely frantic ! 
That stupid girl might have gone off and left Francie '' ! 
`` Oh , she wouldn't do that '' , I said . 
`` She's probably fallen asleep and doesn't hear the phone . 
But if you're worried you can go home and check '' -- `` I can't leave the party ! 
We're at Ken Thom's apartment , and when one couple leaves early everything falls flat ! 
Old Mr. Thom is already down on Wally , and we simply can't afford to get Ken mad at us '' -- I was all set for what came next . 
`` Janice , could you possibly go over and make sure everything's all right ? 
I'll call you there in ten minutes '' -- `` I can't make it in ten minutes '' -- Wondering , as I said it , why I should make it at all . 
Why should I go over at midnight to check on Francie , when her parents didn't care enough to leave a party ? 
`` Fifteen minutes , then ! 
Please , Janice . 
I'll be glad to pay you '' -- So sure that money could do anything ! 
`` All right '' , I said . 
I'd do it . 
Not for the dollar or so Nadine would give me . 
But because there was the chance that something had gone wrong at the apartment , and if I didn't go over , who would ? 
Chris was sound asleep , and I didn't see any sense in waking him . 
I dressed in the kitchen , then left a note on the table telling him what had happened . 
I drove off through the cool darkness to Nadine's apartment and rang the bell , and in a few seconds a young girl opened the door . 
Her face was flushed from sleep . 
`` It's all right '' , I said , as she started to look scared . 
`` Mrs. Roberts had called , and couldn't wake you . 
I just came over to make sure everything was all right '' . 
`` I'm -- hard to wake up '' , she faltered . 
She didn't look over thirteen . 
And Nadine insisted that her sitters be reliable ! 
`` I have to get up early for church tomorrow '' , she went on . 
`` I didn't know it was going to be this late '' ! 
The phone started ringing . 
`` That's Mrs. Roberts again '' , I said . 
`` I'll answer it '' . 
I crossed the beautifully furnished living room to the pale yellow phone . 
I told Nadine everything was fine , and that I'd be getting on home . 
`` Janice , would you mind staying '' ? 
There was a ragged edge to her voice now , as if she'd been crying . 
`` Wally's drunk -- I'll get him out of here as soon as I possibly can , but I don't want Shirley to see him like this . 
You know how gossip of that sort spreads through an apartment building '' -- Not a word of thanks for what I'd already done . 
The receiver clicked in my ear . 
She didn't even give me a chance to refuse . 
Well , there wasn't any law that said I had to stay ! 
But then I looked at Shirley and thought that I might as well -- the child needed her sleep , and Heaven knew what kind of a mess it would be , with Wally coming home drunk . 
So I told her Mrs. Roberts would pay her in the morning , and she scooted off to her own apartment . 
After I looked in at Francie , I went into the living room and waited . 
I must have dozed off , because I came to with a start at the sound of voices . 
Nadine's , shrill with anger -- Wally's loud and thick -- As I went to the door I heard the clock strike two . 
I opened the door , and Wally stumbled in -- fast -- as if Nadine had pushed him . 
I had always thought she was so beautiful . 
But now she looked ugly . 
Her skin was stretched so tight that her cheekbones stuck out , and if looks could kill , Wally would have been dead . 
`` Pack your clothes '' , she hissed . 
`` Pack -- and get out '' ! 
`` You're crazy '' , Wally said thickly . 
He lurched and stumbled to the davenport and sank down on it , and was instantly asleep . 
Nadine strode over to him , and her pointed nails raked across his face . 
I grabbed her arm and she turned on me and for a scared second I thought that maybe Wally was right , and she was crazy . 
`` You stay out of this '' , she spat at me . 
`` He's ruined us -- do you hear me -- he's ruined us ! 
He insulted Ken Thom '' ! 
Her eyes were wild . 
`` He told Ken to his face that he doesn't have what it takes to get a woman ! 
And the other people there were listening ! 
We're ruined and he's going to get out if I have to throw him down the stairs '' -- `` you'd better simmer down '' , I said nervously . 
I was plenty scared . 
In the state she was in , she could actually kill him ! 
`` Now you just take it easy , and I'll make you some tea '' -- `` Tea , '' Nadine screeched . 
`` How can you be so damn stupid ? 
Wally's lost his job ! 
Ken will never forgive him -- never ! 
And we don't have any money -- we don't have a dime ! 
All we own is Francie's bedroom set and the televison-record player and we even owe on them . 
And we'll be poor and have to live in a grubby little house like yours -- and all because of that '' -- I clamped my hand over her mouth to stop the stream of filth . 
`` Stop that ! 
You'll wake up the whole building . 
Wally can't go any place at this hour '' -- `` Well then , I'll get out '' -- But she looked uncertain . 
She was coming to her senses enough to realize that you don't go traipsing off anywhere at two in the morning . 
`` You go to bed '' , I said curtly . 
`` In the morning you and Wally can talk things out '' -- She collapsed against me , as if everything inside her snapped . 
I got her into bed , and sat with her until she had sobbed herself out . 
It was three o'clock before I figured it was all right to go . 
I left her , a limp bundle of self-pity , shivering with terror because her bubble had burst around her . 
Wally was snoring on the davenport . 
I had done all I could . 
I had done all I was going to do . 
Whether or not Wally lost his job was no concern of mine . 
I drove home , found Chris still asleep . 
I snuggled up close to him -- loving him -- thankful for a man like him . 
Thankful I wasn't Nadine . 
I kept on being thankful . 
In the afternoon Nadine and Wally came over with Francie . 
Wally sat in our big chair , his hands between his knees , looking ready to cry . 
`` I'd had all this trouble with the old man , that's why I drank so much . 
I -- got fired yesterday for not attending to business '' -- Old Mr. Thom himself had stopped at the service station for a grease job , Wally confessed , and couldn't get one because there were cars on the pits waiting to be repaired . 
Seems that the kid Wally had hired had a repair business of his own going on the side . 
Mr. Thom had gotten Wally on the phone , and fired him . 
`` I thought I'd smooth things over through Ken '' , Wally said miserably . 
`` But Ken got coy and wouldn't make any promises . 
And I was plastered and I blew my stack '' -- `` And told him right to his face he'd never slept with a woman '' ! 
I tried to quiet Nadine because the children were there . 
But she was beyond caring what she said . 
`` Things may smooth over yet '' , Chris said , his nice lean face grave with honest concern . 
But I couldn't help thinking that Nadine and Wally were getting just what they deserved . 
Now maybe they'd realize that life can be tough . 
When A bubble breaks , there's nothing . 
Little by little , during the week , Chris and I discovered the crazy unbelievable way Nadine and Wally had lived . 
They had not only spent every cent -- they were in debt up to their necks , owing on everything they owned . 
On top of everything else they were two months behind on their apartment rent , and the day Wally received written notice that he was fired , they were evicted . 
Worst of all , Wally had no training for any kind of work . 
He had fallen into a soft job , and now the job was gone and he was stranded . 
Chris fretted . 
`` I wish we were in a position to offer a little money to tide them over '' . 
I said I wished we were , too . 
It was easy enough to say it , because of course we couldn't spare a cent . 
But Chris brightened up like a candle . 
`` I'm glad you feel that way , honey . 
There is one big way we can help them . 
We can let them move in with us '' -- Something I had simply never thought of . 
Something so incredible -- I just stared at him . 
It was incredible -- He gave me an embarrassed , pleading look . 
`` I know we'd be pretty crowded . 
But it would only be for a couple of weeks -- until they get straightened out '' . 
Straightened out -- They'd had years of making all that money ! 
`` I won't do it '' , I said flatly . 
`` Nadine was always too good to live in a little house like this ! 
Well , now she can sleep in the street for all I care '' ! 
`` That isn't like you , Janice '' , Chris said uncomfortably . 
Then I felt uncomfortable , too . 
I didn't want to be like that , mean and bitter . 
But , darn it all , why should we help a couple of spoiled snobs who had looked down their noses at us ? 
But , in the end , we did . 
It just seemed as if there was nothing else to do . 
The finance company took all their furniture -- and they didn't have a cent to their name . 
Then Wally got sick . 
To my way of thinking , he was scared sick . 
His luck had failed him , and it was easier to crawl off into bed than to get out and fight the world . 
Chris made trip after trip in our old car , moving the clothes and dishes and the stock of groceries Nadine had bought on special . 
At least we'll eat , I thought grimly as I put all the food away . 
While I worked , Nadine sat and cried . 
When she wasn't crying , she was in our bedroom fighting with Wally . 
`` Virus infection nothing '' , she'd scream at him . 
`` You're too lazy to go out and look for another job . 
You're just a no-good bum '' ! 
It was a mess , all right . 
But it couldn't go on forever -- A couple of weeks , Chris had said . 
I figured I could stand practically anything for a couple of weeks . 
But the two weeks dragged into three , and they were still with us . 
Nadine's constant nagging had finally gotten Wally out of bed . 
He set out every morning looking for work , and come home around noon , full of alibis and excuses . 
Wendell Thom had black-balled him . 
Nobody would even take his application . 
`` You can get something , '' Nadine would snap . 
`` You can get a job working in a grocery store , if nothing else '' . 
`` The high school kids have got everything sewed up '' , he said , a whine in his voice . 
`` Those damn punks -- taking work away from men who need it '' . 
`` By fall they'll be back in school '' , I'd say , trying to sound encouraging . 
But this was only the middle of July . 
And I couldn't take six more weeks of this . 
I mentioned it to Chris one stifling hot night , when I had slipped outside for a breath of fresh air . 
I don't really believe in intuition . 
But I swear to you from the moment I opened my eyes , I knew it was going to be a bad day . 
Part of it was the weather , so foggy it would take me twice as long to get to the hospital . 
Part of it was being so tired -- I'd not only had my usual full day yesterday , but a dinner meeting as well , that kept me up late . 
But the rest of it , the main part , wasn't based on logic at all . 
It was just going to be one of those days . 
For the thousandth time , I wished I'd chosen some nice , nine-to-five , five-days-a-week profession . 
And for the thousandth time , I answered myself . 
I hadn't chosen medicine -- it had chosen me . 
Actually , I shouldn't complain , I told myself in the shaving mirror . 
I had a lot to be thankful for . 
A profession that brought me as good an income as mine wasn't to be sneezed at . 
Maybe I didn't see as much of Gladdy as I'd like , but how much worse it would have been if I'd had to board her out somewhere after Alice went -- send my daughter to an orphanage or a boarding-home . 
At least , we were together and we had Mrs. Hodges , bless her , to look after us -- no mother could be fonder of Gladdy than Mrs. Hodges was . 
I was lucky in lots of ways , no doubt about it . 
Especially in the way Gladdy had turned out . 
Growing up without a mother from the time she was three -- it wasn't a good thing for a child , even knowing the kind of mother Alice had been . 
But I mustn't start on Alice . 
She is a closed book , a picture I keep on my bureau , but never look at . 
If she'd kept on as she'd been going , the story I'd told Gladdy would probably have been true by now , anyhow As usual , Gladdy's bright smile greeted me at the breakfast table . 
Her first class wasn't until ten , but she always got up to have breakfast with me . 
It made me feel good and knowing that she'd decided , all on her own , to go to college right here in town made me feel good , too . 
Oh , I knew that I couldn't give myself all the credit for her decision . 
I had a feeling that young Pete Michelson , the most promising intern at Fairview , had something to do with it , too . 
She'd been out with Pete the night before and her gay chatter about their date lightened my mood a little . 
But once I was alone again , driving to the hospital , the heaviness returned . 
If she and Pete were really getting serious , I'd have to do some hard thinking . 
Should I tell him the truth about Alice ? 
Did he have a right to know the secret I'd kept from Gladdy all these years ? 
The boys were already waiting in the corridor outside my office when I got to Fairview . 
Two interns and Dick Ishii , the other resident . 
I'm Chief of Medicine here and this morning would start like all others , with me taking the boys on the rounds . 
Pete was down on Seven , Dick told me , and he'd meet us there . 
There wasn't anything of special interest that morning , no one sicker than they should have been . 
Pete came to meet us when we stepped out of the elevator on Seven -- he'd had a case of post-operative shock , but it was all taken care of now . 
Seven is a women's floor and , as it happened , not very busy right then . 
When we'd finished our regular rounds , Pete pointed me toward the small ward at the end of the floor . 
`` Got a new one in last night '' , he said . 
`` I haven't seen her yet , but I hear she's a lulu '' ! 
I wasn't surprised . 
The ward was a small one , four beds , kept reserved for female alcoholics . 
We didn't get many at Fairview and they were never pretty sights . 
It was thought wiser to keep them segregated from the patients in the regular charity ward . 
The moment I walked in , the whole miserable feeling of the day seemed to focus on the woman in the bed . 
They'd cleaned her up some , of course , and she'd pretty much slept off her drunk . 
But there was something about her -- and I felt my lips forming a name . 
Alice But this woman's name was Rose Bancroft ! 
I looked at the chart for reassurance . 
Yes , Rose Bancroft , diagnosis : acute alcoholism . 
She looked about sixty , though I recalled that the chart gave her age as forty-four . 
An ugly scar disfigured the somewhat familiar puffy face , already marred by the tell-tale network of broken red veins that heavy drinkers carry . 
Her coarse hair was two-colored -- bleached blonde and its real , dirty gray . 
Oh , could it be ? 
No , no it was an unfortunate resemblance , that was all it was , and I turned to Dick , forcing myself to put my disquiet out of my mind . 
In a low voice , Dick filled us in she'd been picked up downtown , passed out in the doorway . 
Although quiet when they brought her in , she'd suddenly turned violent and had to be knocked out . 
It was the old story . 
We'd keep her a day or two , and the AA people would talk to her . 
But if she wasn't interested , she'd just go back to the same life she'd left . 
Turning toward the patient again , I -- I can't describe what happened to me then , except to say that I felt sick . 
I tell you , it took every ounce of control I had to be able to speak . 
`` Now , Miss -- or is it Mrs. Bancroft '' ? 
I never liked going straight into an examination with patients -- it relaxes them , I've always thought , to chat first . 
This was one time I'd have gladly broken my own rule , but habit was too strong . 
`` Hey '' ! 
Her voice was flat and dull . 
But those penetrating eyes -- I had to turn my head away . 
It was then that I saw what the drawn-back covers revealed . 
There were bloodspots on the sheet . 
`` What's this '' ? 
I asked . 
`` Your period '' ? 
She shook her head . 
`` I been spotting a little now and then '' , she said quietly , no emotion in her voice . 
`` Have you spoken to a doctor about it '' ? 
Once again , there was a negative shake . 
I told Miss Groggins to move her down the hall where we had an examining table . 
`` Better do a Papanicolaou '' , I told Pete . 
It was only a few moments before Miss Groggins had her in the proper position for a vaginal , but I couldn't see anything wrong on gross examination . 
Pete stood by with a slide and took the smear , sent it down to the lab with a request for the test . 
That done , I told Miss Groggins to take her patient back to bed and again put her out of my mind . 
I was busy the rest of the day . 
Late in the afternoon , I was up on Seven again . 
One of my private patients was being admitted and I went in to see her settled . 
On my way to the elevator , I ran into Pete . 
`` I've got the results on the Bancroft smear test '' , he said . 
`` There's something there , all right . 
Class Three , they said . 
Do you want to talk to her , Doctor '' ? 
`` Well '' -- I didn't -- I didn't ever want to see that woman again . 
But that was ridiculous , of course . 
`` All right . 
We'll do a D. and C. and get her permission for a hysterectomy . 
Maybe it's nothing , maybe it's intraepithelial or in situ -- can't take any chances '' . 
`` If you can keep her here that long '' , Pete said wryly . 
`` Groggins tells me she's started badgering already , wants to get out . 
Wants to get to her booze , I guess '' . 
I grimaced in distaste . 
`` Well , better see what I can do '' . 
We'd been standing right outside Miss Bancroft's door and as I went to turn the knob to enter , I was surprised to find that the door was slightly ajar . 
But she seemed to be dozing and in any case , we'd been talking in low tones . 
Her eyes opened as soon as she heard me , though , and once again , I felt an inward shiver . 
`` I sure can't complain about the service in this place '' , she said . 
`` I just got through seeing one of you guys . 
What do you want '' ? 
There was something almost insulting in her tone , but I disregarded it . 
`` I've just been talking to Dr. Michelson '' , I said . 
`` We'd like you to have a dilatation and curettage . 
That's quite minor , nothing to worry about . 
But we would like your permission to do -- that is , to go further if it proves necessary '' . 
`` No '' . 
It was flat , definite . 
`` Suppose you let me explain . 
Actually , I rather doubt that we'll have to do this . 
Even if we do , you'll be out of here in a week , probably '' . 
I was sure that was the difficulty -- she just didn't want to stay here , where she couldn't get to the liquor . 
`` No '' . 
I looked at her in amazement . 
I'd had patients who'd refused surgery before , of course , but never one who didn't show , in one way or another , the reason why . 
Mostly , it was fear , but this woman's voice didn't tremble and her hands were still on the coverlet . 
`` Will you tell me why '' ? 
I asked . 
She smiled , a smile without humor . 
`` You shouldn't tell your little secrets outside of the patient's door '' , she said . 
`` I've got cancer , haven't I '' ? 
She went on , disregarding my protests . 
`` I'm not going to be one of your guinea pigs . 
Let your pupils learn on someone else , Doctor . 
Just let me die in peace '' . 
I stared at her , almost speechless . 
Her little speech was totally out of character with the sort of person I thought she was . 
Even her voice had taken on a more cultivated tone . 
This was someone who'd come down in the world , I thought . 
A long , long way down . 
Again there was something familiar about her , something -- `` You haven't got cancer '' , I said as strongly as I could . 
`` I don't know what you heard that would make you think so , but I assure you I don't even know myself , so how can you be so sure ? 
And even if '' -- `` Don't give me a lot of talk , Joe '' . 
I gaped at her . 
She could have found out my first name , of course -- that wouldn't be difficult . 
But there was that something , some echo in the way she spoke . 
She was watching me intently , a funny little half-smile on her lips . 
`` Surprised , baby ? 
Guess I've changed , haven't I ? 
But you haven't changed much , Joe '' . 
I knew then , knew with a heart-stopping shock . 
`` Alice '' -- I stammered through dry lips . 
`` Alice , for goodness sake '' -- `` Alice '' , she echoed mockingly . 
`` What's the matter , Joe , you scared of me ? 
Think I'm going to make you introduce a drunk as your wife ? 
Well , don't worry . 
Just let me outta here '' -- `` But why did you come back '' ? 
I'd found my voice . 
`` Where have you been all these years '' ? 
She shrugged . 
`` Here and there . 
As for coming back here -- well , I'll tell you the truth , I didn't even know where I was when I came to . 
The last thing I remember is a bar in San Diego '' -- The way she spoke , her flat acceptance of her alcoholic blackout , made me shudder . 
And this was Gladdy's mother ! 
`` I never asked you for any favors , Joe '' , she went on , `` but I'm asking one now . 
Let me outta here ! 
You doctors are all alike -- all you want is to cut up people and what's the good ? 
No , I want out , Joe '' ! 
I looked at the pathetic wreck of a woman before me . 
Let her out , let her out -- that would be the solution , wouldn't it ? 
What she'd said was true -- in all these years , she'd never asked for anything from me . 
If I let her go , she'd disappear once more . 
And Gladdy would be safe ! 
I was slowly swimming down to the bottom of the sea . 
She made me welcome . 
Her dark cool caresses were sweeter than any woman's ; ; the many little tricks she knew made her embrace the ultimate one -- the ever more fantastic pressures deeper in her body squeezed not me but the air I breathed into a nitrogen anesthetic . 
yielding-Mediterranian-woman- , she soothed me , and drew me deeper into her . 
I no longer knew how deep I was , somewhere under 230 feet , getting drunker , happier and more contented by the second . 
The reasons for this dive seemed foolish now . 
Only the dive itself had any meaning . 
The metal-tasting nitrogen made me wonder if I should remove the mouthpiece and suck in the sweet water . 
Perhaps if I took off the aqua-lung I could swim better , love my woman better . 
I chuckled aloud , and the mouthpiece fell out . 
While a hazy part of my mind concentrated on swimming down , a clear part sorted over recent events , among them my only positive act in a long time . 
It was when I packed up what duds I had and went to Paris . 
It was no vacation , just me getting out after a bellyfull . 
I knew it wouldn't be the same . 
Wild kicks never are , but I hoped to dig up a better frame of mind . 
Once before I had been to Paris , long before I married Valery . 
That first time was good and it stuck with me . 
I was twenty-one back then , in the army , and fog put our plane down at Orly instead of Rhine-Main . 
It was a Saturday evening in April with a mist-like rain , and I was a little high on the good taste of life . 
I had a pocketful of money , which was unusual when I was in the army , and the plane would be grounded all night . 
In less than an hour I had gotten a hotel , showered , shaved and was out on the Champs Elysees in a fresh uniform . 
I felt like a Hun in Rome . 
All the women were beautiful , and the men were equal to them ; ; everything was glamorous to my dazzled eyes . 
There were some sweet machines other than women : an old Bugatti , a lean Farina coachwork on an American chassis , a Swallow , a type A40-AjK Mercedes and lots more . 
There was the Arc de Triomphe and the Tour d'Eiffel -- I was no yokel , but I was young , and this was Paris ! 
I had champagne at Maxim's , then went into a cafe called the Jour et Nuit to ask the way to Montmartre . 
I never got there . 
I met Claire , which was better . 
She was eating bread and cheese just as fast as she possibly could , and washing it down with red wine . 
I stared . 
I didn't know a human could feed so fast and still be beautiful . 
She was blonde , and young , and nice and round in a tight white dress . 
Maybe her ravenous eating wasn't grotesque because she was so positive about it . 
When she had drained the last of the bottle and paid her bill , she came directly to my table and said : `` Handsome soldier , I have assuaged one hunger with food . 
I feel another of terrible urgency . 
Is your evening free '' ? 
`` Madame '' , I said with noblesse oblige because of the `` handsome '' -- `` yeah '' . 
And so off we went to her apartment . 
She was a nymphomaniac , of course , the poor girl . 
Toward the break of day I waxed philosophical , and drew analogies about her way of eating bread and cheese . 
Now it was nine years later , and it wasn't spring but winter when I returned . 
I got there on a Saturday evening . 
I made the mistake of going to the Jour et Nuit . 
The place was busy but I didn't feel like a Hun . 
I sat waiting for Life to come along and sweep me up . 
I had part of a bottle of French beer called Panther Pils ( so help me ) , then switched to Tuborg . 
After a few hours , Life hadn't showed , and I was crocked . 
I went to my hotel and slept . 
The next morning a little cognac made me feel better -- but what can you do in Paris on Sunday morning ? 
So I drank more cognac . 
All that day and Monday I drank just enough to orbit but not make deep space . 
I read the Tropic of Capricorn and the Tropic of Cancer . 
Elemental , but sex . 
That's what was on my mind . 
I was turning over the idea of a good debauchery when I dozed off . 
I felt better Tuesday evening when I woke up . 
My head was clear , my thinking sober and I was reconciled to this Paris idea as a flop on top of all my others . 
A good binge has that kind of therapeutic value . 
Sometime earlier the weather had turned cold and it was snowing . 
I went out into it . 
I walked around breathing the cold wine of the air until I found a park , and I sat down on a snowy bench where the light was dim and came from the sky . 
There was dignity and beauty in the little white flakes falling through the blue night . 
I had on only a topcoat , but I wasn't cold . 
I was just miserable . 
Pretty soon a woman came along carrying a folded umbrella as a walking stick . 
She saw me and sat down beside me , three feet away . 
Suddenly I understood why she had the umbrella . 
It gave her poise and posture . 
Without it she would have been drab and limp . 
It gave her propriety . 
It gave her the right to sit down beside me , back straight , one hand out on the handle . 
I couldn't imagine her without it . 
I knew all about her . 
She was another human being and happened to be a hustler . 
I didn't much care if she were there or not . 
After a while she said with sort of an unuttered laugh , `` You have snow in your hair and ears '' . 
( I didn't have on a hat . 
) Hardly glancing at her , I smiled a bleak one which said , Thanks , baby , but I'd rather be alone . 
She was silent for a while , then said , `` Why are you so unhappy '' ? 
`` I'm not unhappy '' , I lied , staring at the snow . 
She was trying to make a hole in my armor , and I didn't want it . 
`` Is it a woman '' ? 
She asked gently . 
She must have seen the ring on my left hand . 
`` Well -- women and unhappiness go together '' , I observed profoundly , adding , `` You can wager your derriere on that '' . 
`` Ah , Monsieur , it is not my business to wager it . 
'' This took me so funny I had to look at her . 
I felt my frozen sad face crumble , and I grinned a silly one I couldn't have helped . 
I even snorted a chuckle . 
She smiled at me , but it was an awfully sad smile . 
She was even more miserable than me . 
Her eyes were smiling , too , but so sadly , and there was tiredness and infinite wisdom in them . 
`` Now isn't it better to smile '' ? 
She asked . 
Because I liked this sad person so much , I said , `` Will you have a drink with me '' ? 
I could see the ancient cynicism reinforce itself in her eyes , and I wondered how many men she had picked up with this same gambit . 
Anyway , I pulled a bottle of Remy Martin out of my topcoat , drew the cork , and passed it to her . 
I could see she was shocked . 
`` I'm sorry I haven't got a glass '' , I said . 
`` Non , non '' , she said , taking the bottle , `` not for that be sorry '' . 
She tilted up and drank , and then I drank . 
It's really rotten to drink good cognac like that , but I hadn't cared before . 
I wasn't going to lug around a glass . 
There wasn't much light in the blue dark , but I could see her well . 
No child , this tart , she must have been thirty-five or even forty . 
I couldn't be sure . 
Somehow she was attractive . 
Not good looking , but self-confident and wise so that it made her attractive . 
I liked her , and all at once I was glad she was there . 
We finished the bottle -- I hadn't had a lot out of it earlier -- not speaking much to each other , and we stayed sober . 
I suppose we were cold , but we didn't feel it . 
We seemed to be drowsing , sadly , soberly , in the cold , cold air while the snow fell . 
Then she said , `` Allons '' , and we got up and went to my hotel without another word . 
I sensed no stranger in her . 
We undressed and made love with the comfortable acceptance I had once known with Valery . 
I decided thirty-five was the best estimate of her age . 
She had a funny little scar on her stomach , on the left side . 
I think we were very tired , for we awoke at the same moment , deeply rested , surprised to see the late morning sun on the windows , which were wet where the rime had melted . 
I felt wonderful , the absolute opposite of last night's melancholy . 
My head was clear . 
I was hungry as a wolf , and my body felt lean and vital . 
`` Bon jour '' , I said brightly , sitting up , which pulled the covers to her hips . 
She looked good , with her short tousled hair and no make-up . 
Maybe closer to thirty , I thought . 
`` Bon jour '' ! 
She exclaimed , smiling . 
`` J'ai faim '' ! 
`` Yeah , but breakfast first '' . 
With a laugh she beat me to the bathroom . 
I called downstairs for food and a toothbrush for her . 
She came out pink from a hot bath , and I gave her my robe . 
I had brushed my teeth , showered , shaved and dressed by the time a waiter wheeled in breakfast . 
`` The toothbrush Monsieur '' , he said , presenting it . 
I gave it to the woman . 
`` What is this for '' ? 
She asked innocently . 
`` Why , to brush your teeth '' . 
`` But I already have ! 
I used yours '' . 
`` Oh '' ? 
I said with round eyes . 
I wondered if I ought to go use the new one myself . 
But I smelled the coffee , and thinking , What the hell , live dangerously , I decided I would scald my worries away . 
The coffee wasn't very hot though , made in a filter pot , but it was good . 
We sent the waiter away and ate a tremendous amount of cold ham , hot hard-boiled eggs and hot garlic bread . 
As we ate , we talked . 
Her name was Suzanne , and mine Stephen . 
We sat back comfortably on the bed with our last cups of coffee . 
`` You are very tactful , do you know , Stephen '' , she remarked . 
`` Um '' ? 
I grunted , sipping . 
`` Yes , because you didn't run off to use that new toothbrush '' . 
I raised my eyes to look at her in the mirror . 
`` I didn't really use yours '' , she went on . 
`` I carry one in my purse . 
I know men never kiss les putains '' . 
To my immense relief , she changed the subject in the next sentence : `` Shall we go to the Louvre today '' ? 
`` All right '' . 
I said with enthusiasm at the idea . 
`` But not immediately '' . 
I put aside my empty cup . 
She smiled all the way to her wise , sad eyes , and drained her own . 
We were not rushed . 
`` What is this from '' ? 
I asked , touching the scar on her stomach . 
It was like a long thin line drawn through a pink circle . 
`` A bullet '' , she answered . 
The cynicism was back in her eyes , a bitter wisdom , and I wondered if forty were not so far wrong after all . 
She understood sex anyway , and played at it well . 
We went to the Louvre for a few hours , then by Metro to a cabaret in Montmartre . 
It was a nice place , not filled with smoke . 
We had champagne and steamed mussels . 
The sommelier brought the wine first , a magnum instead of the bottle I had ordered . 
He must have thought I was a tourist . 
I fixed him with a steely eye and said , `` What's this for ? 
I didn't ask for a Jeroboam of champagne '' . 
I thought that was pretty humorous , but I didn't laugh . 
Two letters had arrived for Miss Theresa Stubblefield : she put them in her bag . 
She would not stop to read them in American Express , as many were doing , sitting on benches or leaning against the walls , but pushed her way out into the street . 
This was her first day in Rome and it was June . 
An enormous sky of the most delicate blue arched overhead . 
In her mind's eye -- her imagination responding fully , almost exhaustingly , to these shores' peculiar powers of stimulation -- she saw the city as from above , telescoped on its great bare plains that the ruins marked , aqueducts and tombs , here a cypress , there a pine , and all around the low blue hills . 
Pictures in old Latin books returned to her : the Appian Way Today , the Colosseum , the Arch of Constantine . 
She would see them , looking just as they had in the books , and this would make up a part of her delight . 
Moreover , nursing various Stubblefields -- her aunt , then her mother , then her father -- through their lengthy illnesses ( everybody could tell you the Stubblefields were always sick ) , Theresa had had a chance to read quite a lot . 
England , France , Germany , Switzerland , and Italy had all been rendered for her time and again , and between the prescribed hours of pills and tonics , she had conceived a dreamy passion by lamplight , to see all these places with her own eyes . 
The very night after her father's funeral she had thought , though never admitted to a soul : Now I can go . 
There's nothing to stop me now . 
So here it was , here was Italy , anyway , and terribly noisy . 
In the street the traffic was really frightening . 
Cars , taxis , buses , and motorscooters all went plunging at once down the narrow length of it or swerving perilously around a fountain . 
Shoals of tourists went by her in national groups -- English school girls in blue uniforms , German boys with cameras attached , smartly dressed Americans looking in shop windows . 
Glad to be alone , Theresa climbed the splendid outdoor staircase that opened to her left . 
The Spanish Steps . 
Something special was going on here just now -- the annual display of azalea plants . 
She had heard about it the night before at her hotel . 
It was not yet complete : workmen were unloading the potted plants from a truck and placing them in banked rows on the steps above . 
The azaleas were as large as shrubs , and their myriad blooms , many still tight in the bud , ranged in color from purple through fuchsia and rose to the palest pink , along with many white ones too . 
Marvelous , thought Theresa , climbing in her portly , well-bred way , for she was someone who had learned that if you only move slowly enough you have time to notice everything . 
In Rome , all over Europe , she intended to move very slowly indeed . 
Halfway up the staircase she stopped and sat down . 
Other people were doing it , too , sitting all along the wide banisters and leaning over the parapets above , watching the azaleas mass , or just enjoying the sun . 
Theresa sat with her letters in her lap , breathing Mediterranean air . 
The sun warmed her , as it seemed to be warming everything , perhaps even the underside of stones or the chill insides of churches . 
She loosened her tweed jacket and smoked a cigarette . 
Content excited ; ; how could you be both at once ? 
Strange , but she was . 
Presently , she picked up the first of the letters . 
A few moments later her hands were trembling and her brow had contracted with anxiety and dismay . 
Of course , one of them would have to go and do this ! 
Poor Cousin Elec , she thought , tears rising to sting in the sun , but why couldn't he have arranged to live through the summer ? 
And how on earth did I ever get this letter anyway ? 
She had reason indeed to wonder how the letter had managed to find her . 
Her Cousin Emma Carraway had written it , in her loose high old lady's script -- t's carefully crossed , but l's inclined to wobble like an old car on the downward slope . 
Cousin Emma had simply put Miss Theresa Stubblefield , Rome , Italy , on the envelope , had walked up to the post office in Tuxapoka , Alabama , and mailed it with as much confidence as if it had been a birthday card to her next-door neighbor . 
No return address whatsoever . 
Somebody had scrawled American Express , Piazza di Spagna ? 
, across the envelope , and now Theresa had it , all as easily as if she had been the President of the Republic or the Pope . 
Inside were all the things they thought she ought to know concerning the last illness , death , and burial of Cousin Alexander Carraway . 
Cousin Emma and Cousin Elec , brother and sister -- unmarried , devoted , aging -- had lived next door to the Stubblefields in Tuxapoka from time immemorial until the Stubblefields had moved to Montgomery fifteen years ago . 
Two days before he was taken sick , Cousin Elec was out worrying about what too much rain might do to his sweetpeas , and Cousin Elec had always preserved in the top drawer of his secretary a mother-of-pearl paper knife which Theresa had coveted as a child and which he had promised she could have when he died . 
I'm supposed to care as much now as then , as much here as there , she realized , with a sigh . 
This letter would have got to me if she hadn't even put Rome , Italy , on it . 
She refolded the letter , replaced it in its envelope , and turned with relief to one from her brother George . 
But alas George , when he had written , had only just returned from going to Tuxapoka to Cousin Elec's funeral . 
He was full of heavy family reminiscence . 
All the fine old stock was dying out , look at the world today . 
His own children had suffered from the weakening of those values which he and Theresa had always taken for granted , and as for his grandchildren ( he had one so far , still in diapers ) , he shuddered to think that the true meaning of character might never dawn on them at all . 
A life of gentility and principle such as Cousin Elec had lived had to be known at first hand . 
Poor George ! 
The only boy , the family darling . 
Together with her mother , both of them tense with worry lest things should somehow go wrong . 
Theresa had seen him through the right college , into the right fraternity , and though pursued by various girls and various mammas of girls , safely married to the right sort , however much in the early years of that match his wife , Anne , had not seemed to understand poor George . 
Could it just be , Theresa wondered , that Anne had understood only too well , and that George all along was extraordinary only in the degree to which he was dull ? 
As for Cousin Alexander Carraway , the only thing Theresa could remember at the moment about him ( except his paper knife ) was that he had had exceptionally long hands and feet and one night about one o'clock in the morning the whole Stubblefield family had been aroused to go next door at Cousin Emma's call -- first Papa , then Mother , then Theresa and George . 
There they all did their uttermost to help Cousin Elec get a cramp out of his foot . 
He had hobbled downstairs into the parlor , in his agony , and was sitting , wrapped in his bathrobe , on a footstool . 
He held his long clenched foot in both hands , and this and his contorted face -- he was trying heroically not to cry out -- made him look like a large skinny old monkey . 
They all surrounded him , the family circle , Theresa and George as solemn as if they were watching the cat have kittens , and Cousin Emma running back and forth with a kettle of hot water which she poured steaming into a white enamelled pan . 
`` Can you think of anything to do '' ? 
She kept repeating . 
`` I hate to call the doctor but if this keeps up I'll just have to ! 
Can you think of anything to do '' ? 
`` You might treat it like the hiccups '' , said Papa . 
`` Drop a cold key down his back '' . 
`` I just hope this happens to you someday '' , said Cousin Elec , who was not at his best . 
`` Poor Cousin Elec '' , George said . 
He was younger than Theresa : she remembered looking down and seeing his great round eyes , while at the same time she was dimly aware that her mother and father were not unamused . 
`` Poor Cousin Elec '' . 
Now , here they both were , still the same , George full of round-eyed woe , and Cousin Emma in despair . 
Theresa shifted to a new page . 
`` Of course ( George's letter continued ) , there are practical problems to be considered . 
Cousin Emma is alone in that big old house and won't hear to parting from it . 
Robbie and Beryl tried their best to persuade her to come and stay with them , and Anne and I have told her she's more than welcome here , but I think she feels that she might be an imposition , especially as long as our Rosie is still in high school . 
The other possibility is to make arrangements for her to let out one or two of the rooms to some teacher of good family or one of those solitary old ladies that Tuxapoka is populated with -- Miss Edna Whittaker , for example . 
But there is more in this than meets the eye . 
A new bathroom would certainly have to be put in . 
The wallpaper in the back bedroom is literally crumbling off . 
'' ( Theresa skipped a page of details about the house . 
) `` I hope if you have any ideas along these lines you will write me about them . 
I may settle on some makeshift arrangements for the summer and wait until you return in the fall so we can work out together the best . 
'' I really shouldn't have smoked a cigarette so early in the day , thought Theresa , it always makes me sick . 
I'll start sneezing in a minute , sitting on these cold steps . 
She got up , standing uncertainly for a moment , then moving aside to let go past her , talking , a group of young men . 
They wore shoes with pointed toes , odd to American eyes , and narrow trousers , and their hair looked unnaturally black and slick . 
Yet here they were obviously thought to be handsome , and felt themselves to be so . 
Just then a man approached her with a tray of cheap cameos , Parker fountain pens , rosaries , papal portraits . 
`` No '' , said Theresa . 
`` No , no '' ! 
She said . 
The man did not wish to leave . 
He knew how to spread himself against the borders of the space that had to separate them . 
Carrozza rides in the park , the Colosseum by moonlight , he specialized . 
Theresa turned away to escape , and climbed to a higher landing where the steps divided in two . 
There she walked to the far left and leaned on a vacant section of banister , while the vendor picked himself another well-dressed American lady , carrying a camera and a handsome alligator bag , ascending the steps alone . 
Was he ever successful , Theresa wondered . 
The lady with the alligator bag registered interest , doubt , then indignation ; ; at last , alarm . 
She cast about as though looking for a policeman : this really shouldn't be allowed ! 
Finally , she scurried away up the steps . 
Theresa Stubblefield , still holding the family letters in one hand , realized that her whole trip to Europe was viewed in family circles as an interlude between Cousin Elec's death and `` doing something '' about Cousin Emma . 
They were even , Anne and George , probably thinking themselves very considerate in not hinting that she really should cut out `` one or two countries '' and come home in August to get Cousin Emma's house ready before the teachers came to Tuxapoka in September . 
Of course , it wasn't Anne and George's fault that one family crisis seemed to follow another , and weren't they always emphasizing that they really didn't know what they would do without Theresa ? 
The trouble is , Theresa thought , that while everything that happens there is supposed to matter supremely , nothing here is supposed even to exist . 
They would not care if all of Europe were to sink into the ocean tomorrow . 
It never registered with them that I had time to read all of Balzac , Dickens , and Stendhal while Papa was dying , not to mention everything in the city library after Mother's operation . 
It would have been exactly the same to them if I had read through all twenty-six volumes of Elsie Dinsmore . 
She arranged the letters carefully , one on top of the other . 
Then , with a motion so suddenly violent that she amazed herself , she tore them in two . 
`` Signora '' ? 
She became aware that two Italian workmen , carrying a large azalea pot , were standing before her and wanted her to move so that they could begin arranging a new row of the display . 
`` Mi diapiace , Signora , ma insomma . 
'' `` Oh put it there '' ! 
She indicated a spot a little distance away . 
I knew it as surely as everybody in Westfield -- that Lucille was a husband stealer . 
You can't keep that kind of information quiet in a town of only 4000-plus . 
And I've been told that just about every town , no matter what its size , has its Lucille Warren . 
Just as it has its Susan Dolan , though nobody'd ever bothered to tell me that . 
Susan Dolan , that's me . 
They even talked about Lucille down at the Young Christians' League where I spent a lot of time in Bible classes and helping out with the office work for our foreign mission . 
I never heard my folks talk about her , though . 
They were good-living religious people , and I can truthfully say I never heard them spread any gossip about anybody . 
Even if they ever did say anything about people like Lucille Warren , I know they wouldn't have dreamed of saying it in front of me . 
My folks and my faith protected me from things like that . 
And so I was really upset the first time I discovered that my boy friend Johnnie was seeing Mrs. Warren . 
I asked him about it one night while we were sitting in his truck . 
I asked him if it was true . 
He gave me a straight , honest answer . 
`` Look , Sue baby '' , he'd said . 
Much as I love you -- well , a guy's a guy and Lucille's willing to -- to come across . 
Honest , kitten , that's all it is -- I don't even like Lucille much '' . 
I guess it was at that moment that I realized what I was up against in the person of Lucille Warren . 
But it didn't seem fair . 
My love for Johnnie was young and clean -- how could I possibly compete with a woman like that , who didn't hesitate to use her sex . 
Johnnie was a trucker with a small lumber outfit in a town about twenty miles away , and he was also pretty good at anything in the carpentry line . 
It was a vivid , sharp February morning that Johnnie first made his appearance in my back yard , bringing some stuff Dad had ordered . 
I wasn't in the habit of batting my eyes at delivery men , but the moment I saw Johnnie , I knew he was different . 
He wasn't only different -- he was it . 
He had an easy masculine grace about him , the kind that kids don't have , but that I had sometimes admired in other older men . 
His smile was quick , and his eyes held some promised secret that made my knees go limp . 
The most unbelievable thing about the chance meeting was that he seemed interested in me , too . 
I could hardly believe such good luck was mine . 
And now Lucille Warren had gotten a look at him . 
I guess she was between affairs or something , but anyway , she had set her sights on Johnnie , my Johnnie . 
I didn't like it one bit . 
But what could I do ? 
A man had to have his release -- at least that's what the boys used to say in high school -- and I wasn't providing it for Johnnie . 
Neither was his wife . 
She wouldn't have , even if he'd asked her . 
But he wouldn't ask her -- he wasn't the kind of man who would force his wife to submit to him against her will . 
And he wouldn't leave her either -- he'd told me that . 
He was too honorable to leave his wife penniless and leave those helpless children without their daddy . 
Johnnie loved me and wanted me . 
But the only love I was giving him was the pure kind . 
It was weeks before we even kissed for the first time . 
Against my folks' wishes , we'd been seeing each other for short rides in the truck . 
The rides were tame enough -- mostly we talked . 
But by the time the first crackling of spring came around , we both knew we were hopelessly in love . 
Yet even then we did nothing much but talk , and maybe neck a little . 
`` It's so crazy '' , I told him once . 
`` I always imagined I would probably end up marrying a minister or somebody like that . 
Somebody with no vices . 
You know '' . 
`` And you fall for a lumber jockey '' . 
`` Who drinks far too much '' . 
`` And smokes too much '' . 
`` And '' , I was ticking off the items on my fingers , `` swears too much and goes out with the boys , whoever they are , too much , and who ever goes to church and won't even listen when I try to persuade him to come back to the fold '' . 
He examined his nails carefully . 
`` I could walk out the door '' . 
`` Don't you dare '' . 
`` And never show my face or my truck around here again '' . 
He still wasn't looking at me . 
`` You wouldn't '' . 
`` Or I could visit Lucille Warren '' . 
`` You wouldn't . 
Please ! 
You wouldn't '' . 
He shrugged noncommittally . 
`` I might '' . 
And now he was seeing her . 
He'd just admitted it to me . 
I huddled miserably beside him in the truck . 
It was all my doing -- his seeing her . 
Johnnie and I had been innocent in our love , and that was the way I wanted to keep it . 
At first , Johnnie hadn't understood -- how could he , not being a religious person like me ? 
But then he had said , `` All right , kid , if that's how you want it , that's how it'll be '' . 
But what had I done , trying to keep us pure ? 
I had driven him into the arms of that scheming woman . 
I had just the same as delivered him into the hands of the Devil ! 
So one week later , I surrendered to him in the little motel on Route 10 . 
My very first time . 
I was desperate to hold him , to give him whatever in this world he wanted or needed , and to keep him from the clutches of Lucille Warren . 
And , though at the time I blushed to admit it even to myself , there was in me a growing desire , a sexual awareness , that Johnnie had set in motion , an awareness that no other man had ever triggered . 
I wanted him , with a terrifying fierceness . 
Astonishingly enough , it was my own voice I heard there in the darkness , begging this man to make love to me . 
`` Love me , Johnnie '' . 
`` I will , kitten '' ! 
Outside , in the summertime fields behind the motel , a thousand crickets serenaded us . 
`` Will you always love me this way '' ? 
`` Uh huh . 
Always '' . 
`` Mmm '' . 
And I snuggled closer to the man I loved . 
It was as blissful and fulfilling a night as any bride ever experienced . 
I had had no wedding ceremony , no witnesses , no certificate of marriage , but I had all the joy that goes with them . 
`` Johnnie ? 
`` It can't be wrong , can it ? 
Not really '' . 
Johnnie rose on one elbow . 
`` Stop worrying . 
It's never wrong if love is real '' . 
I took great comfort from his words , and smiled to myself in the darkness . 
Infinite peace , complete contentment . 
Idiot's delight , I later discovered . 
I felt no conflict between what I was doing and my strict religious upbringing . 
I had always resisted the passes made at me by other kids , and many times I had thought about my love for Johnnie who , being thirty , brought a maturity to love that the kids around town could know nothing about . 
I had also thought a lot about how God must look on true love , and so in a way I was keeping my promise to God , my promise to remain pure until I was married . 
I was practically a bride , after all . 
There would have been a ceremony if it had been possible . 
Of this , I had no doubt . 
Wouldn't Johnnie do practically anything in the world to insure my happiness ? 
Of course he would . 
He'd not only told me so , he'd proved it . 
It wasn't Johnnie's fault that he was hopelessly tied down to that frightful woman who did her best to make his life unbearable . 
Just because he was honorable enough to want to continue supporting his two children , as any decent man would , that was no reason he should be denied his own small share of happiness too . 
And if I could contribute to that , I'd do it . 
The cost didn't matter . 
No price is too high when true love is at stake . 
And I had no doubts about how true this love was . 
I'd never even petted with a boy , and after I met Johnnie he never touched me for the longest while , not until I all but threw myself at him . 
He was plenty attentive , all right , but he behaved like a gentleman , and I figured that , emotionally , I was closer to his age than to my own eighteen and a half . 
What could a mere twelve years matter ? 
It wasn't , I was sure , a difference in age that came between people , but a difference in maturity . 
And hadn't I rescued him from Lucille Warren ? 
She'd have gotten him , if I hadn't stopped her . 
After all , Lucille Warren was a husband-stealer from way back . 
But I'd been a good girl and now God was blessing me with the gift of this magnificent man and the wondrous love we shared . 
It was only fitting that we seek out whatever joy our union might bring . 
`` Love me '' ? 
`` Uh-huh . 
Love you '' . 
`` Always and always , Johnnie '' ? 
`` Always '' . 
`` Mmm '' . 
Convention time in Boston . 
A chill wind in the air and the narrow streets packed with snow . 
From the entire eastern half of the nation they'd be coming , members of the Young Christians' League , and I'd been chosen to represent our chapter . 
I had mixed emotions about going . 
I'd been seeing Johnnie almost a year now , but I still didn't want to leave him for five whole days . 
But I had looked forward so much to being with this church group . 
I hadn't been doing as much work as I used to in Westfield and I felt funny about that and wanted to work harder than ever . 
I wanted to just throw myself into the good works of this fine group . 
So I went to Boston . 
The first meeting was held in Faneuil Hall , a great big place where we were able to meet members from all the other states . 
My cousin Alma , at whose home I was staying during the convention , introduced me to a group of young people from Rhode Island . 
One of them was a very friendly , lovely fellow named Ronald , a boy about my age with slick , blond hair and dancing blue eyes . 
He looked very different from Johnnie -- in fact , he looked sort of like me . 
I thought so , and he mentioned it , and Alma said so too . 
After the meeting , there was going to be a party at someone's house . 
I assumed Alma would get me there , but in the confusion of the meeting breaking up , we were separated . 
Outside the hall , I anxiously looked around for her , then all at once there was a hand on my elbow . 
`` Hey , there , beautiful twin of mine '' , Ronald said . 
`` Need a pumpkin to get to the party '' ? 
I couldn't help laughing with him . 
`` Well , I should find Alma '' -- I began . 
`` Alma , Schmalma . 
Come along with me '' . 
I went . 
By the time we arrived , the party was already going strong . 
A couple of the girls were laughing rather shrilly and I realized they were drinking . 
My folks wouldn't dream of having alcohol in the house , so my first taste of it had been -- of course -- with Johnnie . 
I hadn't liked it at first -- it was bitter and burning . 
But when Johnnie disguised the taste with ginger ale , I enjoyed it . 
Of course I enjoyed 'most anything if I did it with Johnnie . 
Johnnie I suddenly realized he'd been totally out of my thoughts all evening . 
But that was only natural , I decided ; ; surely he was still resting snugly in my heart . 
`` I don't see Alma anywhere '' , I said . 
`` She's invisible tonight . 
C'mon , let's find out where they're keeping the glasses '' . 
I drew back . 
`` I -- I don't think so , Ronald . 
Not for me '' . 
`` Aw , come on '' . 
`` No -- really '' . 
He shrugged . 
`` Okay . 
But at least come along while I get lubricated '' . 
The kitchen was jammed . 
Strange faces , most of them , and I wasn't even sure all of them had come from the League meeting . 
Under normal circumstances , he had a certain bright-eyed all-American-boy charm , with great appeal for young ladies , old ladies , and dogs . 
Today , he looked like an Astronaut who had left his vitamin pills on the bureau and spent six months in space : hollow eyes , hollow cheeks , hollow stomach . 
Breakfast , he thought . 
A shot of orange juice would make everything seem better . 
He looked around his little Eden : bureau , bed , table , chair , two-burner stove . 
Then he remembered . 
`` You share a refrigerator '' , Mrs. Kirby had said , and somehow , at midnight , after the long drive from New York in pelting rain , that had sounded reasonable . 
In the cold light of day , it seemed a lunatic arrangement . 
Share bath , maybe -- but share refrigerator ? 
She had explained it -- something about summer people's eating out and not enough space in the units . 
And where was the thing ? 
He remembered seeing it last night , when he put away his small store of bachelor-type eatables . 
Ah , yes -- his half of a refrigerator stood outside , on the `` curving veranda '' between Unit Number Three and Unit Number Four . 
It was still raining , and Mrs. Kirby's cottages bloomed through the gray haze like the names they bore , vivid blue and green and magenta . 
Charlie downed his orange juice and one of the long , skinny green pills , his spirits as damp as the day . 
This vacation had seemed like a good idea last week , when his doctor had prescribed it . 
`` Take a full month '' , the doctor had said . 
`` Lots of sun , lots of rest . 
The red pills are a vitamin-and-iron compound . 
This is a sleeping capsule . 
The others will make you a little more comfortable until you get it licked . 
You young men get to be my age , you won't take flu so lightly '' . 
Charlie had accepted the diagnosis without comment . 
The doctor could call it anything from flu to beriberi ; ; but Charlie knew what was wrong with him and knew , too , that there was no pill to cure it . 
He had loved and lost Vivian Wayne to somebody else , had watched her marry the somebody else , and had caught a bear of a cold by kissing the bride good-by forever , which was really piling it on . 
He had caught , too , like an ailment , a confirmed distrust of women . 
Once burned -- scalded , really , because Vivian had given him every encouragement -- forever shy . 
From now on , his was going to be a man's world : the North Woods , duck blinds at dawning , beer and poker and male secretaries . 
Meanwhile , he had this miserable cold , and as he leaned against the refrigerator , watching the rain make sandy puddles at his feet , the doctor's prescription for lots of sun seemed like a hollow mockery . 
In these damp circumstances , he was an odds-on bet to develop pneumonia . 
He looked up to see Mrs. Kirby , awesome in a black-and-yellow polka-dotted slicker , bearing down on him . 
`` Three-day blow '' ! 
She bellowed triumphantly . 
He had noticed before that the natives seemed to regard really filthy weather as a kind of Pyhrric victory over the tourists . 
`` Fine , day after tomorrow '' , she added . 
`` I hope so '' , he said . 
`` I've got this cold . 
Thought I'd bake it out in the sun '' . 
`` Ah '' . 
She studied him briefly . 
`` You've got a peaked look . 
Better get in out of the wet '' . 
Charlie forbore to mention that the wet was somewhat universal , Peony being less than weatherproof . 
As for its being fine , day after tomorrow , he had the unhappy conviction that it would never be fine again , with Vivian lost to him forever . 
He could imagine her at this minute , honeymooning in Nassau with what's-his-name , lounging on golden sands , looking forward to a life of unalloyed bliss . 
All Charlie could look forward to was a yellow pill at noon , a salami sandwich for lunch , and a lonely old age -- if he lived that long . 
He leafed through the light reading provided by Mrs. Kirby for her guests : four separate adventures of the Bobbsey Twins ( At the Seashore , At the Mountains , On the Farm , and In Danger ) and several agricultural bulletins on the treatment of hoof-and-mouth disease in cattle , hideously illustrated . 
He dozed , only to dream of Vivian , and woke , only to crash into the night table , bruising his other shin . 
He took a yellow pill , only to choke on it , and went for the salami , only to find something alive in the refrigerator -- something pink and fuzzy . 
His first thought was that Mrs. Kirby , in her mania for color , had dyed a cat and that cat had somehow managed to open the refrigerator door and climb in ; ; but on further investigation , the thing proved to be a sweater , of the long-hair variety that sheds onto men's jackets -- pale , pale pink and , according to the label , size thirty-four . 
He thought about it for a minute , could find no reasonable explanation for the presence of a sweater in the refrigerator , got the salami , bread , and a Bermuda onion , and put the whole thing out of his mind . 
Next morning , he found a note in the refrigerator . 
`` Would you mind wrapping your onion '' ? 
Said this note . 
`` The smell permeates everything '' ! 
Everything being the sweater , a lipstick case , and a squirt bottle of Kissin' Kare pink hand lotion . 
The note paper was pink , too , and the handwriting small and dainty and utterly feminine . 
Not that he had supposed , considering the evidence , that he was sharing this refrigerator with a member of the Beach Patrol . 
He scrawled `` Sorry '' across the bottom of the note and then , against his better judgment , added : `` Don't you eat '' ? 
He didn't want to encourage anything here ; ; but on the other hand , he didn't want her swiping his salami . 
`` Not onions '' , came the answer the following day . 
`` Ugh '' . 
Must have really smelled up her sweater , he thought , and wondered idly just why she kept the sweater fast-frozen . 
But then , as he well knew , women are not guided by logic or common sense . 
Take Vivian . 
Yes , take Vivian . 
Somebody had . 
Now , if this were Vivian next door to him and if , for some obscure female reason , she kept her clothes in the refrigerator , they would not be pink . 
They would be black or white or horse-blanket plaid , chic and splashy , like Vivian herself . 
Pink , Vivian once had told him , was for baby girls , and grown-up girls who wore pink were subconsciously clinging to their infancy . 
`` Why does this girl keep a sweater in the refrigerator '' ? 
He mused aloud . 
Eh '' ? 
It was Mrs. Kirby , making her toilsome way along the veranda , laden with a clattery collection of mops , brushes , and pails . 
`` What's that you say '' ? 
`` Oh , nothing . 
Just glad the rain's stopped '' . 
`` Oh , yes . 
Just look at that sky . 
Be a scorcher by afternoon '' . 
`` I hope so . 
I've got this cold '' . 
`` So you said '' . 
She scrutinized him . 
`` My , you're peaked . 
You want to watch out that you don't get burned to an ash , first sunny day . 
I must remember to warn the girl next to you in Larkspur . 
That pale kind's the worst '' . 
That pale kind , Charlie thought . 
Hardly an inviting description . 
But then , neither was peaked . 
He could hear Mrs. Kirby now , warning her pale guest against sunburn . 
`` I spoke to the fellow next door , too '' , she might say . 
`` He's that peaked kind '' . 
Surely there was a better word . 
Charlie looked in the mirror . 
Run-down , iron-poor . 
He looked more closely . 
Frail , feeble -- peaked . 
Clearly , two damp days with the Bobbsey Twins had done him no good . 
The sun , blazing hot as prophesied , was far from kind to Mrs. Kirby's varicolored properties . 
When Charlie came up from the beach for his four-o'clock pill , the whole establishment ( gaudy enough when seen through mist and fog ) looked like a floodlit modern painting -- great blocks of dizzy color , punctuated at regular intervals by the glaring white of five community refrigerators . 
This weekend , he thought , he would look around for some more subdued retreat , with Cape roses , maybe , at the door . 
He could not imagine a flower's being brave enough to grow beside Peony , Larkspur , and the rest . 
The sweater was gone from the refrigerator , and in its place was a large plastic bag , full of wet pink clothes . 
No wonder she was so pale , wearing all those cold clothes . 
He got a red pill and a beer and then , on impulse , transferred the rest of his salami to her side of the refrigerator and scrawled `` Be my guest '' on the wrapping . 
It gave him a good feeling . 
`` M-m-m . 
Thanks '' , was her answer the next day . 
The note was propped against his pill bottles and bore a postscript : `` You're not at all well , are you '' ? 
`` I've got this cold '' , he wrote . 
Not that it was any of her business . 
`` It's none of my business '' , said the next note , `` but my Aunt Elsie used to take lemon juice and honey in hot water for a cold , and she lived to be ninety-six . 
I mean , she's still living , and she's ninety-six . 
Why don't you try that '' ? 
`` I don't have a lemon '' . 
He had to write very small to get it on the bottom of the scrap of paper . 
By the next morning , she had turned the paper over . 
`` Gee , neither do I '' . 
Charlie grinned . 
She didn't sound like a pale girl . 
She sounded a little like a redhead . 
But then , redheads are often pale . 
He stuck his head in Mrs. Kirby's little rental office . 
`` I guess that redhead next to me took your advice . 
I haven't seen her on the beach '' . 
`` You won't , if you're looking for a redhead . 
She's got browny hair '' . 
He spent that afternoon on the beach , looking for a pale , browny-haired girl in a pink bathing suit . 
There were pink bathing suits on blondes , and browny-haired girls in red or black or green bathing suits . 
There were a sprinkling of daring bikinis and a preponderance of glorified tank suits . 
Up on a dune , he saw a girl , all by herself , sitting on a camp stool before an easel and absorbed in her painting . 
He paid little attention to her because she was a redhead and because she was wearing white -- one of those bulky , turtle-neck sweaters . 
On the beach , there were pale girls and not-so-pale girls . 
And he saw them all as he walked up and down . 
At two that morning , he was still walking -- up and down Peony , up and down the veranda , up and down the silent , moonlit beach . 
Finally , in desperation , he opened the refrigerator , filched her hand lotion , and left a note . 
`` I've got this sunburn '' , said the note , `` and I used some of your hand lotion . 
Hope you don't mind '' . 
`` Of course I don't mind '' , she answered . 
`` You're having a miserable time , aren't you ? 
Use all the lotion you want , and for goodness' sake , stay in out of the sun for a couple of days '' . 
This was a very warm , sympathetic girl , he decided . 
Sympathy is a fine quality in a woman . 
Now Vivian , for instance , was not too long on sympathy . 
She felt , and said , that sympathy only made people feel sorry for themselves ; ; it was a tough world , and you had to be tough to hold your own . 
He didn't know what was so tough about Vivian's world , slopping around Nassau with what's-his-name . 
Suppose what's-his-name got a sunburn ? 
Charlie couldn't see Vivian offering any hand lotion . 
She might peel him , once the worst of the agony was over . 
Charlie spent the next two days in his pajama bottoms , waiting for the fire in his back to subside , and used generous quantities of the hand lotion . 
Correspondence passed back and forth . 
`` How's your sunburn now ? 
The only thing , this lotion has glycerin in it , and that whitens the skin , so if you're so anxious to get a tan , you may not want to use it '' . 
`` I'm not that anxious , but maybe that's why you're so fair '' . 
`` That Mrs. Kirby ! 
I'll bet she told you I was puny , too . 
How's your cold '' ? 
`` Broiled out . 
She didn't say you were puny . 
Are you ? 
What's puny '' ? 
`` Puny goes with pale and peaked . 
Do you have anything to read while you're shut up ? 
There are two things here about Surviving in the Wilderness , and a book called ' Tom Swift and His Speedy Canoe ' ; ; but the picture of Tom Swift is pretty sinister . 
Also the canoe '' . 
There was a crowd in the stands for a change and the sun was hot . 
The new Riverside pitcher turned out to have an overhand fast ball that took a hop . 
For a few innings the Anniston team couldn't figure him out . 
Then , in the fifth , Anniston's kid catcher caught onto a curve and smacked the ball into left center field . 
Eddie Lee , Riverside's redheaded playing manager , ran after the ball but it rolled past him . 
Phil Rossoff cut over to center from left field to get the relay . 
Eddie caught up with the ball near the fence and threw it to Phil . 
`` Third ! 
Third base '' ! 
Eddie shouted . 
Phil spun around and made an accurate throw into Mike Deegan's hands on third base . 
Mike caught the ball just as the catcher slid into the bag . 
But the Anniston boy had begun his slide too late . 
He came into the bag with his body and Mike Deegan brought the ball down full in his face . 
`` You bastard '' ! 
The Anniston catcher screamed . 
He jumped to his feet and started to throw punches . 
Mike Deegan tossed his glove away and began to swing at the catcher . 
This brought in everybody from both sides , while the spectators stood up and added to the uproar . 
The fighters were separated in a few minutes . 
The game was resumed . 
But Mike Deegan was boiling mad now . 
When the inning was over he cursed the Anniston catcher all the way into the dugout . 
Phil Rossoff , coming in from left field , stopped at the water fountain for a drink . 
Mike Deegan was standing beside it , facing the field . 
He was eyeing the Anniston catcher warming up his pitcher before the inning began . 
`` Keep your eyes open , sonny '' ! 
Mike yelled to the catcher . 
`` You're in for trouble '' . 
The Anniston catcher did not reply with words . 
He simply turned to Mike and smiled . 
This so infuriated Deegan that he spun around and said : `` I'll get that little bastard . 
So help me God , I'll get him '' . 
Phil Rossoff said : `` Why don't you leave him alone '' ? 
`` Mind your own goddamn business '' , Mike Deegan said . 
Phil shrugged . 
He stepped into the dugout , wondering why Deegan was always looking for trouble . 
Maybe the answer was in his eyes . 
When Deegan smiled his eyes never fit in with his lips . 
In the last of the sixth inning Mike Deegan got up to bat and hit a fast ball over the left fielder's head . 
By the time the fielder got his hands on the ball Deegan was rounding third base and heading for home . 
The left fielder threw and it was a good one . 
But Mike had no chance of being tagged . 
The Anniston catcher was straddling home plate . 
All Deegan had to do was slide , fall away , but instead , he rammed into the catcher . 
Both fell heavily to the ground . 
Only Mike got to his feet . 
He went back to touch home plate , turned and walked to the dugout without looking back . 
The Anniston players and their manager ran out on the field . 
They poured water over their catcher's face . 
He did not move . 
Then the manager called for a doctor . 
The Riverside physician came down to look over the injured ballplayer . 
Then , quickly , and a little nervously , the doctor ordered a couple of ballplayers to carry the catcher into the dressing room . 
Mike Deegan was sitting on the bench , watching . 
When the ballplayers started to carry the catcher off the field he said : `` That ought to teach the sonofabitch '' . 
Phil Rossoff , seated next to Deegan , got up and moved to the other end of the bench . 
The Anniston manager was coming over to the Riverside dugout . 
He was followed by four of his men . 
It began to look as if something was going to happen . 
Mike sat quietly watching the manager come nearer . 
Eddie Lee moved over to Mike Deegan's side . 
No one said a word . 
The Anniston manager came right up to the dugout in front of Mike . 
His face was flushed . 
`` Deegan '' , the manager said , his voice pitched low , quivering . 
`` That was a rotten thing to do '' . 
`` For God's sake '' , Mike said , waving the manager away . 
`` Stop it , will you ? 
Tell your guys not to block the plate '' . 
`` You didn't have to ram him '' . 
`` That's what you say '' . 
The Anniston manager looked at Eddie Lee . 
It was a cold and calculated look . 
He turned and went back across the field to his dugout . 
He called in the pitcher who had been pitching , and a big , heavy , powerfully built right hander moved out to the mound for Anniston . 
The game started again and in the eighth inning Mike Deegan came up to bat . 
Everyone in the ball park seemed to be standing and shouting . 
The first ball the hefty pitcher threw came in for Mike's head . 
Deegan fell into the dirt , the ball going over him . 
He arose slowly and brushed himself off . 
He got back into the batter's box and on the next pitch dropped into the dirt again . 
`` Hit the bum '' ! 
Somebody yelled from the Anniston bench . 
In the Riverside dugout Frankie Ricco , shortstop , whispered into Phil's ear : `` There's gonna be a fight '' . 
`` Look at those bastards '' ! 
Charlie Haydon , a pitcher , said . 
`` They're looking for trouble '' . 
Mike was slow getting into the box this time . 
When he finally did he had to duck his head quickly away as the pitch came in . 
`` Listen '' ! 
He shouted to the pitcher . 
`` One more and I'm coming out there '' ! 
`` I'll be waiting '' ! 
The pitcher yelled back . 
Mike Deegan pounded the rubber plate with the end of his bat . 
He stood flat-footed in the box , but not very close to the plate now . 
The pitcher wound up and the ball came in straight for Mike's head . 
Deegan dropped , got up , turned and , holding the bat with both hands up against his chest , began to walk slowly out to the mound . 
The pitcher tossed his glove away and came towards Mike Deegan . 
They were both walking towards each other , unhurried . 
Riverside and Anniston players rushed out on the field . 
In the next moment , it seemed , the infield was crowded with spectators , ballplayers , cops , kids and a dog . 
There was much shouting and screaming . 
Fights sprang up and were quickly squelched . 
Mike and the Anniston pitcher were pulled away before they even came together . 
Phil Rossoff and two other Riverside players did not go out on the field when the fighting started . 
After the game , Phil was taking off his sweatshirt in the dressing room when Mike Deegan came in . 
`` It's a helluva thing '' , Mike said , looking at Phil , `` when a guy's own team-mate won't come out and help him in a fight '' . 
Phil sighed and pulled the wet sweatshirt over his head . 
Frankie Ricco sat down on the bench near Phil . 
The other players were undressing quietly . 
Eddie Lee had not come in yet . 
Mike went over to Phil and stood over him . 
`` Why the hell didn't you come out when you saw them gang up on me '' ? 
`` I didn't think it was necessary '' . 
`` Well ! 
Now that's just fine ! 
You didn't think it was necessary '' . 
Mike placed both his hands on his hips . 
He pushed his jaw forward . 
`` Listen , wise guy , if you think I'm gonna do all the fighting for this ball club you're crazy '' . 
Mike had a good two inches over Phil and Phil had to look up into Mike's face . 
`` I didn't ask you to fight for the ball club '' , Phil said slowly . 
`` Nobody else did , either '' . 
`` You trying to say I started the fight '' ? 
`` I'm not trying to say anything '' . 
Phil turned away and opened his locker , and then he heard Mike Deegan say : `` You're yellow , Rossoff '' ! 
And Phil banged his locker door shut and spun around . 
But before anything could happen Frankie Ricco was between them and Eddie Lee had come into the dressing room . 
`` Phil , come into my office '' , Eddie said . 
Phil followed Eddie into the office and shut the door . 
He sat down before Eddie's desk . 
`` I'm doing you a favor '' , Eddie said quickly . 
`` You get your unconditional release as of today '' . 
Phil's eyes widened just a trifle . 
`` The best thing for you to do '' , Eddie said , `` is go home . 
You don't belong in professional baseball '' . 
Phil had to clear his throat . 
`` Is this because of what happened out there '' ? 
`` No '' , Eddie said . 
`` But it does confirm what I've suspected all along '' . 
Phil stood up . 
`` Listen ! 
This is the second time . 
'' `` Sit down , sit down '' , Eddie said . 
`` I'm not saying you're yellow . 
I am saying you're not a professional ballplayer '' . 
Eddie Lee leaned forward over the desk . 
`` Now listen to me , Phil . 
I'm not steering you wrong . 
You haven't got the heart for baseball '' . 
Phil shook his head and Eddie frowned . 
Suddenly his voice grew hard . 
`` What the hell do you think baseball is ? 
You're not in the big leagues , but if you can't give and take down here what the hell do you think it'll be like up there '' ? 
Phil started to say something but Eddie cut him short . 
`` Now don't tell me what a good ball player you are . 
I know you've got talent . 
But what you haven't got is the heart to back up that talent with . 
The heart , Phil . 
You just haven't got the heart for pro-ball , and that's it '' . 
Dazed , Phil said : `` I don't get it . 
My batting average '' Eddie stood up abruptly , then sat down just as abruptly . 
`` What difference does your batting average make ? 
Or your fielding average . 
Or even the way you run bases . 
I tell you when it's necessary to hurt in order to win -- you won't do it . 
That's what I mean by no heart for the game . 
Baseball's no cinch . 
Deegan had no business ramming into that kid out there . 
He did it because he knows for each guy he puts out of commission that's one less who might take his job away later on . 
What the hell do you think baseball is ? 
A sport ? 
It's a way of life , goddamit ! 
And you've got to be ready to cut to ribbons anybody who wants to take your way of life away from you '' ! 
He's wrong ! 
Phil thought . 
It's only his opinion . 
There were other clubs in this league . 
He stood up slowly . 
He was a little pale and shaky . 
His lips felt glued together . 
`` I think you're wrong , Eddie '' , he said finally . 
Eddie nodded . 
`` Okay . 
You'll get your pay in the morning '' . 
Phil turned and left the room , hearing Eddie say : `` Someday you'll see I was right '' . 
Phil shut the door behind him . 
Outside in the dressing room , Frankie Ricco sat on the bench dressed in his street clothes . 
`` What happened '' ? 
Frankie asked . 
Phil said : `` I got my release '' . 
`` You crazy '' ? 
Phil shrugged . 
`` What for '' ? 
Phil sighed . 
Frankie shook his head . 
`` I don't get it '' . 
`` I don't know '' , Phil said . 
They were silent for a few moments . 
Then Frankie said : `` What are you gonna do '' ? 
Phil started to take his clothes off and Frankie sat down on the bench again . 
Phil took off one shoe and stared at it . 
`` Don't take it like this '' , Frankie said . 
`` Hell , plenty of guys get let out and come back later . 
The leagues are full of guys like that '' . 
Phil was very quiet . 
`` What are you gonna do , Phil '' ? 
Phil did not answer . 
`` Why not try another club '' ? 
Phil looked up . 
What the hell right did Eddie have saying a thing like that ? 
`` Springfield's in tomorrow '' , Frankie said . 
`` Talk to Whitey Jackson '' . 
He just didn't know what he was talking about , saying a thing like that . 
`` Will you do it , Phil '' ? 
`` Do what '' ? 
`` Ask Whitey for a job '' . 
Phil nodded . 
`` Sure '' , he said . 
`` Springfield come in tomorrow '' ? 
Frankie nodded . 
`` I'll speak to Whitey '' . 
`` Atta boy '' . 
`` I'll talk to him , all right '' . 
`` Don't worry '' , Frankie said . 
`` You'll get a job there . 
He needs outfielders bad '' . 
`` I'm not worried about it '' , Phil said . 
`` That's the way to talk . 
What else did Eddie have to say '' ? 
`` Nothing '' , Phil said . 
Richard's next interest seemed the product of his insularity . 
His broad reading took him into certain by-ways of religion and the subject of religion began to fascinate him . 
When he was twelve he took to reading St. Augustine and Aquinas , then Lao-tse , Confucius , Mencius , Suzuki , Hindu tomes by endless Krishnaists and numerous socio-archaeological papers . 
For his birthday , because Richard had seen them in a store and asked for them , his mother bought him the Zend-Avesta and a little image of the Indian god , Acala . 
And one day , on her own , his mother came home with a present entitled The Book of the Dead , which she suspected Richard would enjoy . 
He was enormously happy with her gift and smiled , then went to his room to read . 
At dinner one night , when he was fourteen , Richard announced , `` There is only one god '' . 
`` Did you think there were two '' ? 
Grinned his father . 
`` You don't understand '' , Richard said gloomily . 
Through quiet laughter his mother said , `` Don't speak to your father like that , Richard '' . 
Richard seldom spoke anyhow and he didn't speak to his parents about religion again . 
His interest in the formal study of religion waned when he was sixteen and he substituted for it an interest in Asian affairs . 
Although he still didn't speak to anyone , he grew fond of saying , `` The future lies in Asia '' , when the opportunity arose , and when he graduated from high school his parents sent him to New York to give him a foundation , they said , for his life in Asian studies . 
Richard was a solitary student in New York and acquired , in his remoteness , a thorough if bookish knowledge of Asian lore , literature , life , politics and history . 
He was awarded a fellowship to continue his studies in Tokyo and he packed up his clothes , the biwa upon which he had been practicing and his image of Acala , and left to spend a week at home before leaving the country . 
The week at home was not comfortable . 
His mother , who had seen little of him for four years , appeared worried about his sailing off by himself for an Orient which , she herself having slight knowledge of it , had to be distrusted . 
She seemed to work to grow close to her son in the few days he spent at home , talking to him about some of the more pleasant moments of his childhood and then trying to talk to him about those things in which he alone was interested . 
`` Do you still have The Book of the Dead '' ? 
She asked him and , laughing , she added , `` I was nervous about buying a book with a title like that , but I knew you'd like it '' . 
`` Yes '' , he lied to shorten the conversation , `` I still have it '' . 
He was no longer able to relax in the presence of his parents and found it difficult to keep up a conversation with his mother or father , no matter the subject . 
As for The Book of the Dead , it along with his other books on religion had been incarcerated in a furnace in the basement of the building in which he had lived in New York . 
He had dusted each of the books carefully and carried them all to the basement and , trembling at having to open the big furnace , given them up to the flames . 
Then he sped from the dark basement and returned to his room and cried . 
Richard left America with his clothes , his biwa and his image of Acala and , on the freighter which took him to Japan , he plucked at the biwa , trying to make the sounds he wrought resemble an ancient Japanese tune he had once heard . 
During his second week at sea he brought the curious melody out of the instrument and suddenly wanted to force the biwa to remain at just that moment in its history when it had given him pleasure . 
He stole from his cabin late that night and crept out into a gusty North Pacific wind and dropped the biwa into the water . 
It was so dark that he didn't see it hit the water and the noisy rush of the ocean kept him from hearing it . 
It was as though the biwa had been eaten up by the wind . 
In Tokyo Richard took up a life similar to that which he had lived in New York , except that he had replaced his biwa with a friend . 
An American student named Charlotte Adams had refused to take notice of his evident aversion to people and had at last succeeded in getting him to talk to her . 
He had nothing much to say to her but that he said anything seemed to please her and he accompanied her on some of her unusually searching tours of Tokyo . 
In Charlotte , Richard saw a frankness and a zest for doing things which , after a fashion , he envied . 
In time , he grew to depend upon her occasional company and she at length was able to encourage him to participate in more social activity . 
She convinced him that he ought to be a member of some of the small tea-drinking parties she held at her rooms and in the end he complied with her wishes , although it was only rarely that he added anything to the random conversations . 
At one such gathering Charlotte announced , `` I was at Ryusenji today . 
Have you ever been to Ryusenji '' ? 
No one had . 
`` Well , it's at Fudomae and there was a tan young man , quite naked , taking a shower in the pool . 
I was thoroughly startled '' . 
Richard thought it a more promising remark than any made during the last conversation , but Charlotte's manner during the gatherings was more flippant and superficial than when she was alone with him and he was sure her remark would lead to nothing much better than the pointless words which had preceded it . 
Three of the four persons present , all foreign students in Tokyo , had been playing a game of judging popular Japanese foods by the In and Out system , an equation in which Zen philosophy was used as the modifier . 
Soba , udon and tea were In because they could be taken noisily . 
Sushi was Out because it was pretentious . 
Sashimi was In , Samuel Burns had suggested , because it was too far Out to stay Out , even if it was a little pretentious . 
Richard had kept his eyes down throughout the game , the very sound of the chatter nearly painful to his ears . 
`` He wasn't the least bit disturbed by my watching him '' , said Charlotte . 
`` Did you watch him '' ? 
Asked a red-haired girl named Ceecee Witter . 
`` I shouldn't have been able to do that '' . 
`` Well I was able to do it '' , Charlotte said with no sign of irritation . 
`` For a minute , anyhow . 
I'm surprised no one has been there . 
I've been there a number of times . 
Sam , I thought you knew everything about Tokyo . 
You've never been to Ryusenji '' ? 
`` I've heard about it '' , Samuel Burns said . 
`` There's a little place there called Lovers Mound dedicated to Gompachi and Komurasaki '' . 
`` Yes , a little parkish place '' , Charlotte said , and concluded , `` Anyhow , it's all very nice . 
And the man who brought sweet potatoes into Kanto is buried there , next to a beautiful seated statue of Fudo . 
Oh , that's what I meant to tell you . 
This is the interesting part , Richard '' , she had a bothersome habit of trying to pull him into the talking . 
`` There was that fellow out there in the bitter cold '' -- `` My God , it was cold today '' , said Samuel Burns . 
`` Twenty-two or twenty-three '' . 
`` And the water would be still colder '' , Ceecee seemed to shiver at the thought of it . 
`` And your golden god '' , said Samuel Burns , `` probably went right home and poured himself into a boiling bath . 
It would kill one of us '' . 
`` But the point is '' , Charlotte said , `` there he was , freezing , naked in a little stream of water at Ryusenji , all in worship of Fudo , the god of fire '' . 
Richard's dark eyes came up and seemed for the tiniest moment to reflect sharp light . 
It was true ; ; Fudo , the god of wisdom , was also thought of as the Japanese version of Acala . 
The conversation went on but Richard stopped listening . 
He found himself trying to remember something , but he couldn't decide even the nature of what it was he worked to recall . 
He had almost given up when he realized that the dropping of his biwa into the icy jowls of the black Pacific was the memory for which he had been searching . 
Perhaps he sensed some connection between the incident on the freighter and the ascetic at Ryusenji , he was unable to put it together . 
That night , after leaving Charlotte's apartment , Richard walked about for a time before returning to his room . 
When he at last did go to his room , he couldn't sleep and instead paced up and down before his little image of Acala , thinking first of Charlotte's tale of the man at Ryusenji , then of his biwa and the invisible Pacific waters . 
And the next morning , not sure of why he went , he took the train to Fudomae and walked to Ryusenji . 
He was surprised by the sharp sensation he experienced as he approached the pool which Charlotte had mentioned . 
He went through a gate to stand at the edge of the water and gazed at the two thin falls which dropped from large spigots high at the back of the pool . 
On the hillside above was caged what might have been an incarnation of Fudo , or perhaps a demon . 
The strange creature , housed in wire , made him shudder . 
The sensation he so overwhelmingly realized was one which told him he had been there before but he knew he had not , and could not recall any place he had visited to be likened to the limpid green water or the little fountain-falls or the green demon imprisoned beyond his reach . 
He left the pool and climbed the steep stone stairs to the temple , and the sense of familiarity with the place would not leave him . 
Into a little well before the temple he dropped a hundred-yen coin and then he had an urge to sound the bell before the temple , to take hold of the rope and crash it against the circle of bronze ; ; but the spirit he wished to call out would not , he knew , come in the person of the temple priest . 
Instead , he walked around the temple and mounted still another flight of stairs and stood before the seated Fudo at their head . 
The black Fudo seemed to stare rigidly back at him and Richard's eyes were caught by the Fudo's in fascination , and then Richard was shocked as , all at once , flames shot out from the sharp features of Fudo's face and there was a terrible metallic scraping sound , as if the large statue were about to burst from some pressure within it . 
Then the flames were gone , the stillness fell upon the severe black face and Richard began to tremble violently . 
Suddenly he emptied his pockets of all his coins and dropped them into the box before the seated Fudo and hurried back down both stairways and away from the temple , never looking back . 
He walked all the miles back to his room . 
He seemed to have picked up a virus that day , because the next morning he had a small cough and felt a bit hot . 
He stayed home , reading and refusing to think about his frightening experience at Ryusenji . 
But the process of refusing to think about it was an active reminder in itself and he couldn't rid himself of a consciousness of it throughout the day . 
The cold lingered , making sleep difficult that night , and he remained in bed still the next morning , now unable to keep from thinking about the inexplicable sight of burning metal , the wretched sound , the unbearable feeling of having been to a remote Tokyo temple at some earlier time in his life . 
All of the elements of the experience were impossible and yet the reality of them was heavy upon him and he resolved never again to visit the temple at Fudomae . 
I was thinking of the heat and of water that morning when I was plowing the stubble field far across the hill from the farm buildings . 
It had grown hot early that day , and I hoped that the boy , my brother's son , would soon come across the broad black area of plowed ground , carrying the jar of cool water . 
The boy usually was sent out at about that time with the water , and he always dragged an old snow-fence lath or a stick along , to play with . 
He pretended that the lath was a tractor and he would drag it through the dirt and make buzzing , tractor sounds with his lips . 
I almost ran over the snake before I could stop the tractor in time . 
I had turned at the corner of the field and I had to look back to raise the plow and then to drop it again into the earth , and I was thinking of the boy and the water anyway , and when I looked again down the furrow , the snake was there . 
It lay half in the furrow and half out , and the front wheels had rolled nearly up to it when I put in the clutch . 
The tractor was heavily loaded with the weight of the plow turning the earth , and the tractor stopped instantly . 
The snake slid slowly and with great care from the new ridge the plow had made , into the furrow and did not go any further . 
I had never liked snakes much , I still had that kind of quick panic that I'd had as a child whenever I saw one , but this snake was clean and bright and very beautiful . 
He was multi-colored and graceful and he lay in the furrow and moved his arched and tapered head only so slightly . 
Go out of the furrow , snake , I said , but it did not move at all . 
I pulled the throttle of the tractor in and out , hoping to frighten him with the noise , but the snake only flicked its black , forked tongue and faced the huge tractor wheel , without fright or concern . 
I let the engine idle then , and I got down and went around the wheel and stood beside it . 
My movement did frighten the snake and it raised its head and trailed delicately a couple of feet and stopped again , and its tongue was working very rapidly . 
I followed it , looking at the brilliant colors on its tubular back , the colors clear and sharp and perfect , in orange and green and brown diamonds the size of a baby's fist down its back , and the diamonds were set one within the other and interlaced with glistening jet-black . 
The colors were astonishing , clear and bright , and it was as if the body held a fire of its own , and the colors came through that transparent flesh and skin , vivid and alive and warm . 
The eyes were clear and black and the slender body was arched slightly . 
His flat and gracefully tapered head lifted as I looked at him and the black tongue slipped in and out of that solemn mouth . 
You beauty , I said , I couldn't kill you . 
You are much too beautiful . 
I had killed snakes before , when I was younger , but there had been no animal like this one , and I knew it was unthinkable that an animal such as that should die . 
I picked him up , and the length of him arched very carefully and gracefully and only a little wildly , and I could feel the coolness of that radiant , fire-colored body , like splendid ice , and I knew that he had eaten only recently because there were two whole and solid little lumps in the forepart of him , like fieldmice swallowed whole might make . 
The body caressed through my hands like cool satin , and my hands , usually tanned and dark , were pale beside it , and I asked it where the fire colors could come from the coolness of that body . 
I lowered him so he would not fall and his body slid out onto the cool , newly-plowed earth , from between my pale hands . 
The snake worked away very slowly and delicately and with a gorgeous kind of dignity and beauty , and he carried his head a little above the rolled clods . 
The sharp , burning colors of his body stood brilliant and plain against the black soil , like a target . 
I felt good and satisfied , looking at the snake . 
It shone in its bright diamond color against the sun-burned stubble and the crumbled black clods of soil and against the paleness of myself . 
The color and beauty of it were strange and wonderful and somehow alien , too , in that dry and dusty and uncolored field . 
I got on the tractor again and I had to watch the plow closely because the field was drawn across the long hillside and even in that good soil there was a danger of rocks . 
I had my back to the corner of the triangular field that pointed towards the house . 
The earth was a little heavy and I had to stop once and clean the plowshares because they were not scouring properly , and I did not look back towards the place until I had turned the corner and was plowing across the upper line of the large field , a long way from where I had stopped because of the snake . 
I saw it all at a glance . 
The boy was there at the lower corner of the field , and he was in the plowed earth , stamping with ferocity and a kind of frenzied impatience . 
Even at that distance , with no sound but the sound of the tractor , I could tell the fierce mark of brutality on the boy . 
I could see the hunched-up shoulders , the savage determination , the dance of his feet as he ground the snake with his heels , and the pirouette of his arms as he whipped at it with the stick . 
Stop it , I shouted , but the lumbering and mighty tractor roared on , above anything I could say . 
I stopped the tractor and I shouted down to the boy , and I knew he could hear me , for the morning was clear and still , but he did not even hesitate in that brutal , murdering dance . 
It was no use . 
I felt myself tremble , thinking of the diamond light of that beauty I had held a few moments before , and I wanted to run down there and halt , if I could , that frenetic pirouette , catch the boy in the moment of his savagery , and save a glimmer , a remnant , of that which I remembered , but I knew it was already too late . 
I drove the tractor on , not looking down there ; ; I was afraid to look for fear the evil might still be going on . 
My head began to ache , and the fumes of the tractor began to bother my eyes , and I hated the job suddenly , and I thought , there are only moments when one sees beautiful things , and these are soon crushed , or they vanish . 
I felt the anger mount within me . 
The boy waited at the corner , with the jar of water held up to me in his hands , and the water had grown bubbly in the heat of the morning . 
I knew the boy well . 
He was eleven and we had done many things together . 
He was a beautiful boy , really , with finely-spun blonde hair and a smooth and still effeminate face , and his eyelashes were long and dark and brushlike , and his eyes were blue . 
He waited there and he smiled as the tractor came up , as he would smile on any other day . 
He was my nephew , my brother's son , handsome and warm and newly-scrubbed , with happiness upon his face and his face resembled my brother's and mine as well . 
I saw then , too , the stake driven straight and hard into the plowed soil , through something there where I had been not long before . 
I stopped the tractor and climbed down and the boy came eagerly up to me . 
`` Can I ride around with you '' ? 
He asked , as he often did , and I had as often let him be on the tractor beside me . 
I looked closely at his eyes , and he was already innocent ; ; the killing was already forgotten in that clear mind of his . 
`` No , you cannot '' , I said , pushing aside the water jar he offered to me . 
I pointed to the splintered , upright stake . 
`` Did you do that '' ? 
I asked . 
`` Yes '' , he said , eagerly , beginning a kind of dance of excitement . 
`` I killed a snake ; ; it was a big one '' . 
He tried to take my hand to show me . 
`` Why did you kill it '' ? 
`` Snakes are ugly and bad '' . 
`` This snake was very beautiful . 
Didn't you see how beautiful it was '' ? 
`` Snakes are ugly '' , he said again . 
`` You saw the colors of it , didn't you ? 
Have you ever seen anything like it around here '' ? 
`` Snakes are ugly and bad , and it might have bitten somebody , and they would have died '' . 
`` You know there are no poisonous snakes in this area . 
This snake could not harm anything '' . 
`` They eat chickens sometimes '' , the boy said . 
`` They are ugly and they eat chickens and I hate snakes '' . 
`` You are talking foolishly '' , I said . 
`` You killed it because you wanted to kill it , for no other reason '' . 
`` They're ugly and I hate them '' , the boy insisted . 
`` Nobody likes snakes '' . 
`` It was beautiful '' , I said , half to myself . 
The boy skipped along beside me , and he was contented with what he had done . 
The fire of the colors was gone ; ; there was a contorted ugliness now ; ; the colors of its back were dull and gray-looking , torn and smashed in , and dirty from the boy's shoes . 
The beautifully-tapered head , so delicate and so cool , had been flattened as if in a vise , and the forked tongue splayed out of the twisted , torn mouth . 
The snake was hideous , and I remembered , even then , the cool , bright fire of it only a little while before , and I thought perhaps the boy had always seen it dead and hideous like that , and had not even stopped to see the beauty of it in its life . 
I wrenched the stake out , that the boy had driven through it in the thickest part of its body , between the colored diamond crystals . 
I touched it and the coolness , the ice-feeling , was gone , and even then it moved a little , perhaps a tiny spasm of the dead muscles , and I hoped that it was truly dead , so that I would not have to kill it . 
And then it moved a little more , and I knew the snake was dying , and I would have to kill it there . 
The boy stood off a few feet and he had the stake again and he was racing innocently in circles , making the buzzing tractor sound with his lips . 
I'm sorry , I thought to the snake , for you were beautiful . 
I took the broken length of it around the tractor and I took one of the wrenches from the tool-kit and I struck its head , not looking at it , to kill it at last , for it could never live . 
The boy came around behind me , dragging the stake . 
`` It's a big snake , isn't it '' ? 
He said . 
`` I'm going to tell everybody how big a snake I killed '' . 
`` Don't you see what you have done '' ? 
I said . 
`` Don't you see the difference now '' ? 
`` It's an ugly , terrible snake '' , he said . 
He came up and was going to push at it with his heavy shoes . 
I could see the happiness in the boy's eyes , the gleeful brutality . 
`` Don't '' , I said . 
I could have slapped the boy . 
He looked up at me , puzzled , and he swayed his head from side to side . 
I thought , you little brute , you nasty , selfish , little beast , with brutality already developed within that brain and in those eyes . 
I wanted to slap his face , to wipe forever the insolence and brutal glee from his mouth , and I decided then , very suddenly , what I would do . 
Cady didn't come unglued easily , but this had not been a day of glad tidings . 
Tax worries , production worries , personnel worries , and the letter from Hanford College , his own alma mater , a real snapper . 
Hanford realized he had enrolled his son four years ago . 
Yes , the boy's credentials were in order -- scholastic transcript , character references , picture , health record , successful college boards . 
But due to the many applicants on file , would he co-operate and write a personal letter giving them his son's motivation , interests and his qualifications for leadership ? 
Cady Partlow lit his pipe with no comfort . 
This was it . 
This was the letter which would or would not enroll his son , David , in Hanford . 
His son who had never held an office in any organization in the eighteen years of his life . 
His son who did not know whether he wanted to be doctor , lawyer , merchant or chief . 
He wondered if he had played it wrong . 
Maybe he should have kept in touch . 
Gone back for reunions . 
But he had been busy building a business , being a big man in his own town just as he had been a big man at Hanford , Class of 1935 . 
Besides , Cady Partlow knew he wasn't the old-grad-type . 
It wouldn't help anyway . 
Look at Pete Alcorn , who hadn't missed a Hanford ball game in fifteen years . 
Pete's son was rejected . 
Hanford College , Little Ivy League , had no room for football players with low grades . 
Cady looked at his own son's scholastic record with pride . 
Good solid B average with a sprinkling of A's in math and science . 
Imagine his son being that good in science ! 
Mr. Partlow could still feel a cold sweat on his slightly gray temples as he remembered what a near thing chemistry had been for him at Hanford . 
But then , he hadn't studied very hard . 
Getting elected president of the student body took a lot of time and politicking . 
He put down his pipe and started to type . 
`` In response to your letter , I can in good conscience recommend my son , David , in the field of leadership '' . 
He stopped and looked at the picture of his son , the picture on his desk which had changed with the years from a laughing baby to a candidate for Hanford College . 
He didn't have to be told his son looked like him . 
David had the same gray eyes , high cheekbones , dark hair and a certain rugged ugliness . 
Height , 6' . 
Weight , 160 . 
Health , excellent . 
He turned back to the typewriter with a little more confidence . 
`` His interests range from astronomy and geology to electronics , tennis and swimming . 
His chief motivation for enrolling at Hanford is the desire to '' -- Mr. Partlow banged his fist on the keyboard , ruining the letter . 
He paced to the window and looked at the city he had helped to build . 
How do you tell a college president that your son doesn't know what he wants to do ? 
That you have refused to drive him into the family business or push him into a profession so you can say at the club , `` Of course David has known since he was twelve he wanted to be an engineer '' -- or a lawyer , or an editor ? 
How do you tell a college like Hanford that your son has a vast potential , that he will find himself ? 
Just give him time , give him a chance . 
Cady snapped the Venetian blind shut and slammed himself down before the typewriter , rolled in a fresh sheet , and gave his letter the same savage attention he bestowed on a salesman who needed to have the bucket taken off his thick head . 
What a production to make of a letter commending your own son ! 
His eyebrow went up in amusement at his soul-searching panic . 
He told Hanford his son wanted to go into the field of electronics . 
He told Hanford his son had participated in numerous high-school activities . 
He belonged to a social club , a civic group , little theater , swimming team , and had been president of the student forum as well as treasurer of the science club . 
He finished with a flurry of good wishes to Hanford College and signed the letter . 
There , that did it . 
Then he met the grave eyes of his wife , Anne , from the photograph next to David's . 
He shoved the unsealed letter into his coat pocket . 
Better show it to Anne and see if he had omitted anything . 
After all , his wife had written most of his letters for him in those first lean days of Partlow Products . 
Anne had a way with words . 
Half of it was natural , half was Smith College . 
Yet the whole of Anne was something she had never learned in any college . 
A woman had it or she didn't . 
Anne had it . 
She said what she meant and let it be . 
She never got on his back . 
He could take the advice or leave it . 
He whistled as he locked the office and grinned as he got on the elevator . 
`` You look like you just heard a real gasser , Mr. Partlow '' . 
Cady looked at Tom , who had taken him up and down for fifteen years . 
`` I was just thinking how things have changed . 
When I went to college they begged you to come . 
Be our guest ! 
It's our pleasure ! 
Now you have to be well rounded , firm in motivation and pre-packed with knowledge '' ! 
Tom slid open the door to the lobby . 
`` That's a fact , Mr. Partlow . 
My John applied to six colleges before he got in '' . 
`` Going to State '' ? 
`` No . 
He's president of the rocket club here , you know . 
Always messing around with science stuff . 
Real bright along those lines , you might say . 
He got a science scholarship to Yale '' . 
`` Oh '' , said Mr. Partlow , `` that's fine , Tom . 
Just fine '' . 
As he drove home through the thinning traffic , Cady felt the unease growing . 
He hadn't told anyone , but he , too , had applied to five colleges for David . 
They had all turned down his son . 
Weakness in leadership . 
So sorry . 
Limited interests . 
So sorry . 
No clear motivation . 
So sorry . 
He suddenly realized when he walked into his own pretty darned expensive house that he needed the Martini Anne had waiting for him . 
But tonight his drink tasted like branch water and even his favorite meal of steak and tossed salad gave no surcease from the growing weight of the letter in his pocket . 
Nor did looking at Anne ease the tension as it usually did . 
He liked looking at Anne . 
Most people did . 
He liked her blond hair and the sprinkle of freckles across her nose . 
From those navy-blue eyes she saw things as clearly and honestly as David did . 
She always could sense the shag end of a woolly day . 
`` Board meeting tonight , Cady '' ? 
`` No , I begged off . 
Work to do '' . 
`` Can I have the car , Dad '' ? 
`` Why not let him take it , Cady ? 
I know it is midweek , but it's only eight days before commencement . 
Let's forget the rules '' . 
Cady , deep in thought , neither heard nor answered . 
David grinned . 
Carefully he put down his steak knife and said loudly , `` Mr. Chairman '' ! 
Cady Partlow's head came up like that of the proverbial fire horse . 
`` I'm sorry , Dave . 
The car ? 
Of course you can have it '' . 
Dave ate two pieces of pie as he did everything else , slowly , methodically and with interest . 
`` Hear anything from Hanford yet , Dad '' ? 
Cady begged the question . 
`` Don't worry about it , Dave . 
Your acceptance will come through '' . 
Dave shrugged on his sports coat and picked up the car keys . 
`` Don't be too sure , Dad . 
Charles Burke got turned down by Dartmouth and he is a straight-A student '' . 
Anne said it wasn't surprising because Charles was antisocial , a lone wolf , and completely one-sided . 
`` I can hardly say the same about you , Dave '' ! 
Dave kissed her lightly . 
`` Girls , my dear parent , are here to stay ! 
Get my old man to bed early . 
He looks a little bit frayed '' . 
Anne waited until the door had slammed and picked up the coffeepot . 
`` Let's go into the library . 
You do seem somewhat tattered '' . 
Cady trailed her with the coffee cups and settled into his favorite chair in the comfortable book-lined room . 
`` I didn't know I looked so dilapidated '' ! 
`` Wrong word , darling . 
Your fur has been rubbed the wrong way and you show it . 
Need any help '' ? 
`` In a way , yes . 
Hanford College hasn't decided on Dave's application yet . 
They want a letter from me on his motives , interests and leadership . 
Here's what I wrote '' . 
Cady handed her the letter , drank his coffee and waited with what he suddenly realized was belligerence . 
Already he could feel Anne's questioning eyes . 
`` I know you wrote this in a hurry , but , Cady , Dave was only acting president of the student forum for a few days . 
That was when half the school was down with flu '' . 
`` But he was president '' . 
`` And he wasn't really elected treasurer of the science club . 
He just took over the week Bill Daley was in the state basketball play-off '' . 
Cady stuck his jaw out . 
`` The fact remains he was treasurer '' . 
`` And the swimming team . 
No , Cady , he made second team . 
Just missed the first '' . 
`` A team is a team '' , insisted Cady . 
`` Anything else '' ? 
`` Yes '' , she said quietly . 
`` I don't think you've been quite honest , Cady . 
It isn't like you . 
David's interests . 
Astronomy . 
He was mad about stars at the age of nine . 
Geology , You and Dave used his rock collection for the bottom of the fishpond six years ago ! 
Those aren't his interests now '' . 
`` What do you suggest '' ? 
`` Just say he likes swimming , tennis , chess and music '' . 
`` Music ! 
He hasn't been to a symphony concert all season '' . 
Anne smiled . 
`` But he plays bass with Chief Crazy Horse and his Five Colts '' ! 
`` You mean that rock-and-roll combo ? 
Even in that he never solos like Jack on guitar or Rich on sax . 
He's -- he's just there , that's all '' . 
`` Yes , he's just there . 
He keeps the beat going . 
He likes to play bass because he doesn't have to solo . 
He doesn't like to rise and shine . 
Don't worry , Cady , he'll be back in the Beethoven fold by next year '' . 
Cady appeared slightly mollified . 
`` All right . 
But I refuse to be brutally honest and mention Chief Crazy Horse and his Five Colts '' . 
Anne laughed and Cady felt the tension loosen its grip on the back of his neck . 
`` Maybe I am padding it a bit , Anne '' , he said . 
`` But you know how hard it is to get a boy into a good college . 
He has to have leadership as well as grades '' . 
Anne folded the worrisome document . 
`` Did you know he is advertising his ham-radio equipment for sale this weekend ? 
He hasn't used it now for several years . 
Can you really say his motivation for college is electronics '' ? 
Cady felt the jolt as though he had stepped off the curb on his heel . 
`` And what would you say he wants to do ? 
Just what '' ? 
`` It's Dave who is applying to Hanford College . 
Why don't you ask him '' ? 
For once Cady Partlow wished Anne would yell at him so he could yell back . 
`` I have talked to him , but you know I've never tried to push him into any profession . 
I won't be guilty of trying to run his life '' . 
Anne picked up the towel she was hemming for the hospital guild . 
`` Just because your father tried to make a banker out of you , you've leaned over backward to keep your hands off . 
But subconsciously you've wanted him to conform to your mold . 
You want him to be a leader of men , like you '' . 
Cady put the well-worn chip back on his shoulder . 
`` Dave has qualities of leadership . 
He just hasn't developed them yet . 
Give him time '' . 
He never will , Cady . 
Not the kind of leadership you mean , working with lots of people . 
All your wishful thinking won't change that . 
Remember what you used to say in the Army ? 
You can't run a war with ninety-nine generals and one private '' ! 
Cady walked the block to the mailbox , almost ashamed of himself for arguing with Anne . 
Martin felt it was incredible that the situation had come to exist at all . 
And once begun , had grown to such monstrous proportions . 
The pair of white cotton shorts ruled his life . 
Lying awake at night , he could see them , laid out on the floor of his mind . 
When he rose in the morning , the image was still there . 
He had always been a messy and negligent man . 
In his bachelor days , his bedroom had been strewn with clothes which his mother , or later the hotel maid , generally saw fit to put in order . 
No doubt Dolores resented following in their footsteps . 
But it was fun those first days , kidding about the trail of garments he left littered across the rug . 
There was an assertive maleness in his grinning refusal to pick them up . 
Half slyly he enjoyed seeing her stoop to lift the things . 
He remembered the first time he saw her , standing across the room at a party . 
The smooth curve of her neck , very white against hair which curled against it like petals . 
Her hair was the color of those blooms which in seed catalogues are referred to as `` black '' , but since no flower is actually without color contain always a hint of grape or purple or blue -- he wanted to draw the broad patina of hair through his fingers , searching it slowly for a trace of veining which might reveal its true shade beneath the darkness . 
So he sought her out , and spoke to her , and thought of his hand in her hair . 
Or against her back , pressed on the column of vertebrae , which held her so magnificently straight and unyielding , until the segments of bone made tiny sharp cracking noises , like the snapped stem of a tulip . 
But , to put it bluntly , nothing snapped . 
Yet that had not seriously troubled him , not then . 
They married . 
More he could take at leisure . 
All Martin thought he needed was time : to what better use could time be put ? 
He saw later that they had made their marriage too quickly . 
There was too little occasion beforehand for resistance , the brave strong delights of emotional clash and meeting . 
They had left themselves too much to discover . 
But , at the start , his new life felt invigorating . 
Good . 
It was on the tenth day after the wedding ( how could it have been so soon ? 
) that he dropped the shorts on the floor . 
`` Now , I'm not going to pick up those shorts '' ! 
Martin gave her a teasing pat . 
`` I think you'll get tired of them there '' . 
In the morning the shorts were where he had left them . 
He smiled to himself , and decided not to mention them till Dolores did . 
It was almost too easy . 
For he had just remembered : tonight they were having their first guests . 
The shorts would not be on the floor when he came home that evening . 
He was wrong . 
The rest of the bedroom had been groomed to a superhuman neatness , but in the middle of the carpet lay the disheveled shorts . 
They gave the room a strange note of incongruity , like a mole on a beautiful face . 
He saw that Dolores intended to wait until the last minute , thinking he would get nervous . 
Quietly he determined to foil her . 
I can be as stubborn as she can , he thought ; ; my nerves are as strong . 
She'll rush to the bedroom when the doorbell rings . 
It rang . 
Ten minutes early . 
Martin was standing a few feet from the front door . 
He swung around , eyes toward the bedroom , some fifteen feet away . 
Dolores stood motionless in the doorway . 
He could not cross the living room , brush past her , and bend down to retrieve the shorts . 
Martin turned his back . 
He strode to answer the bell . 
Bill's hat was deposited in the hall closet . 
With the most casual and relaxed manner in the world , Dolores led Anthea to the bedroom . 
Martin strained his ears . 
At first he could not be sure . 
Then he caught just enough to know that the shorts were still there . 
A glissade of giggles slid over their voices . 
All evening Anthea favored him with odd , coy looks . 
Clearly she had been instructed `` not to say a word '' . 
For some reason , this ellipsis in the conversation spread until it swallowed up every other topic . 
At last there was a void no one could fill . 
The Brainards went home early . 
Martin realized , later on , that he should have `` had it out '' with Dolores that night . 
As violently as possible . 
But he was so taken aback , he could not believe any rage of his would make her give in . 
On the contrary , it would only weaken his position if he fumed , while she stayed calm and adamant . 
And if he surrendered after raving at her . 
He shivered . 
Suppose he ran up the white flag altogether ? 
At once . 
He considered the sober possibility . 
In his head was the echo of those titters with Anthea . 
There was something about private feminine whisperings which always made him feel scabrous and unclean . 
He remembered his mother gossiping with her neighborhood women friends , lowering her voice to a penetrating hoarseness which might be trusted to carry to the head of the stairs , where he crouched listening . 
He could even recall the last time he sat there . 
She was talking about him that time , because he had done some bad thing , something she disliked , but `` Afterwards Martin said he was sorry . 
He apologized so sweetly , I couldn't keep being annoyed with him '' . 
It wasn't even true that he'd said he was sorry that time ; ; he had in fact said simply that he wished the thing hadn't happened , which was as honest as he could put it . 
But his mother told the story over and over , till her `` Martin said he was sorry '' was as much a part of her as the shape of her thin , pallid ears . 
The battle had to be fought . 
Let the best sex win . 
But his resolution hardly seemed to help . 
If the situation had been bad , it now got worse . 
About this time people began `` dropping in '' , considering that the newly married had been left alone long enough . 
Angrily Martin wished they had delayed the wedding and gone on a trip -- preferably one that lasted months -- instead of deciding not to postpone the date until he could get away . 
Here they were at the mercy of anyone who chose to come by . 
These stray people nearly always insisted on Dolores showing them around the apartment . 
Of course , the tours of inspection included the ever-present shorts . 
It was curious how the different visitors took this . 
Some tried to ignore the blot on the bedroom's countenance . 
Others asked . 
Quite a few laughed . 
To them all Dolores told a lighthearted and witty tale . 
`` It's a little contest Martin and I have '' , she would begin gaily , carrying the anecdote through a frothy and deceptive course . 
While he waited in the living room . 
Once Martin went along . 
They entered the bedroom , and Dolores said nothing . 
Then one of the guests showed his merriment . 
`` You were in a hurry , weren't you '' ? 
Martin would have liked to break the man's neck . 
Dolores smiled ; ; she let the interpretation stand . 
Now Martin heard himself give a snort of mock good nature . 
With her eyes Dolores dared him for the truth , ready to begin : It's a little contest -- Never again did he enter into the ritual of showing the apartment . 
They kept up a rigid pretense of speaking relations . 
But Martin seldom felt the impulse to talk about anything . 
What to talk about ? 
Dolores kept picking up any of his clothes ( except the fatal shorts ) which he left about , but he had been robbed of pleasure in scattering his possessions . 
He fell into the habit of putting his clothes in drawers and closets , so his life might impinge as little as possible on hers . 
The shorts alone remained . 
In his moments of worst agony , Martin imagined what his friends were saying . 
The sound of their amazement . 
Bizarre : He could hear the word . 
The most bizarre situation . 
We were up to visit them and He had thought her exactly what he wanted . 
Six weeks of marriage and I'm using the past tense , he told himself furiously . 
Pursuing his idea , he saw that it would be impossible to leave her now . 
Everyone would know why ; ; he would cut a supremely ridiculous figure . 
He was trapped . 
Day and night Martin could not drag his mind from the dilemma he had made for himself . 
His mind scurried frantically , seeking an exit . 
Alternately he had periods of hostile defeatism in which he determined sullenly , morosely , to live out his life in this fashion . 
Nothing would change , nothing would ever change . 
When the solution finally came to him , one night while he was in bed , he was so shaken by its simplicity that he could only wonder why it had not occurred to him before . 
In a frenzy of excitement , he considered his plan . 
Beside his shorts , he would place something of hers . 
Instantaneously he would have won an immeasurable moral victory , for if she picked up , say , a pair of her panties , she might just as well lift his shorts lying alongside -- the expenditure of energy was almost the same . 
He felt that it would be a particular humiliation to Dolores to pick up her own underwear which he had laid on the floor . 
Furthermore , he could go on repeating the maneuver endlessly : every time he went in the bedroom , he could drop a slip or a brassiere , or maybe a girdle , next to his shorts . 
Sooner or later , Dolores would crack . 
On the other hand , if she didn't remove her own things , it would be difficult to explain to the parade of guests which traversed the apartment . 
Martin guessed that Dolores would not be so eager to tell the next installment of her story . 
The tale , he thought , would become less gay . 
She had used his rumpled shorts as the very image of his childishness , his lack of control , his general male looseness , while she remained cool , airy , and untouched , the charming teacher who disciplined an unruly body . 
To have her underclothes linked with his on the floor would draw her visibly into a struggle both bitter and absurd . 
Something in the back of his mind was aware that the magnificence of the plan lay in his faith , that the idea would work because he believed in it , since his courage and virility were involved , because it was truly his . 
The knowledge kept him from analyzing his scheme to death , and took him through the last hours of that night in a peace of exalted fanaticism . 
The next morning , while Dolores was out of the room , he went to her bureau drawer , took out a pair of nylon lace pants , and tenderly dropped them next to his shorts . 
He sat down on the bed . 
In a surprisingly short time , Dolores appeared . 
To his delight , her eyes focused at once upon the two garments . 
Slowly and deliberately she reached down and touched the lace with her fingers , then hesitated for about a second . 
Ah , he thought , she's going through the chain of reasoning which says she might really just as well pick up my shorts too . 
He saw that in a moment she had grasped all the implications of a plot which had been weeks in occurring to him . 
Extending her fingers another inch , she caught up the shorts , and swiftly left the room . 
She did not look at him , but he noticed that her face was flushed and her eyes unsteady . 
They breakfasted together , but Martin did not refer to his triumph , and Dolores found a great deal to do in the kitchen , bobbing up and down from the table so that talk was impossible . 
Well , Martin thought , That'll save . 
He left for work in high spirits . 
As he relaxed that day , Martin realized how tense he had been these past weeks . 
He found that he no longer hated Dolores ( he knew how much he had hated her ) , and he was surprised at a resurgence of an affectionate feeling . 
`` Good old A-Z '' , Cap said . 
`` You know , I've got one of your cars at home . 
As a prominent industrialist , you ought to be interested in his nibs' support group . 
Isn't his racket down your alley '' ? 
Once it was , William thought . 
But not any more . 
A rush of memory swept him back , and he forgot Cap . 
How did he start on such a ride to brief glory ? 
Simply enough , through the inadvertent agency of his brother-in-law . 
General Hershey's draft and Doc Eddyman and Cap were responsible for his first eminence , but Fearless Freddy Bryan could take credit , if he cared to ( and he did ) , for the second time . 
Freddy needed a job , having been detached from a rather dangerous career in real estate and skyscraper financing by Gerry , and it was up to Arthur Willis to provide him with one . 
Mr. Willis bought Zenith Plastic Products , a skeleton corporation of sorts which had undergone many vicissitudes and whose principal assets were a couple of electronics plants on Long Island engaged in working out government contracts , and installed Freddy in an executive position . 
Shortly after , Freddy had his usual proliferation of bold ideas . 
Willis listened patiently , and once in a while William was exposed to them at a family gathering ; ; he generally heard Freddy's suggestions without interest , being absorbed by his own prospering concerns . 
Probably Mr. Willis was influenced toward deeper involvement by familial loyalty and a concern for his grandchildren . 
Gerry began to aid Freddy with her father , prodded , no doubt , by Joan's open contempt for Freddy and William's irritating competency . 
Another factor must have been the eventual disposal of Willis' fortune ; ; she unquestionably assumed that the more he was entwined with Freddy , the more likely he was to reward Freddy richly upon his death . 
Whatever the reasons , Willis and Bryan started expanding Zenith . 
They acquired another electronics factory , a specialized ceramics company , an organization that built -- very experimentally -- high-speed research calculators . 
Since they were hunting for national defense contracts , Adam Herberet , a man of surprising resources , entered the combination as a silent partner because of his political connections . 
Feeling his power , Freddy looked for additional worlds to conquer . 
Heavy industry , slanted toward inexhaustible government coffers , attracted him . 
The Allstates Auto Company , a medium-sized firm which manufactured four-wheel-drive vehicles and other off-road equipment , had recently constructed an over-large , modern plant in a burst of misguided optimism . 
Cursed with a shaky management and dissatisfied stockholders , it was ripe for amalgamation , and Freddy's instinct was to keep growing by stock mergers and small expenditure of cash , and never mind inevitable consequences . 
With Herberet's blessing , he was convinced that Allstates' Wisconsin folly would be ideal for conversion to airplane sub-assembly , tanks , missiles or ordnance of some kind . 
At that point William came into the picture . 
Although not much desiring the account , he had been appointed advertising head of Zenith . 
Freed of routine by having his own firm and a complaisant partner , his work in New York had given him a broader overall knowledge of business administration and corporate structure ; ; and if he wasn't entirely committed to what he did , he was at least fascinated by the chance of wider opportunities . 
Mr. Willis , eager to have him allied with the family , wanted advice beyond the confines of his field , and William set out on a serious study of the situation , including trips to Wisconsin and Washington . 
In the end , he said : `` I'm not enchanted by the proposition , sir . 
I know a guy named Jack Hamrick , a very bright young engineer who was with Chrysler , and I took him with me to Allstates . 
It's his expert opinion that the plant isn't well suited to what you have in mind . 
The conversion will cost a fortune . 
Besides that , I'm acquainted more or less with the defense hardware situation through my contacts in the Air Force . 
I think Adam Herberet is guilty of being too hopeful and better informed on defense financing than on the technical side . 
Missiles have thrown everything up for grabs , and nobody seems to be sure where we go from here . 
The future of manned aircraft is in doubt , which affects government procurement , and jet transports have revolutionized the airline trade -- one jet can take the place of three compound-engine planes . 
This means the aircraft companies are going to tear into the government market , looking for anything they can get and making the competition tough . 
Here are a few facts and figures I've assembled . 
Can't you stay with what you have and wait till the dust settles '' ? 
Willis glanced at the bound pages given him and shrugged . 
`` Well '' , he said , `` there is Freddy , you know . 
And Gerry . 
Freddy is deeply committed to our plans already . 
He assures me he has people to handle the money raising , and Ham Richert , my lawyer , says the legal aspects of the wedding of Zenith and Allstates are no problem . 
I don't like to exhibit the deadly dampening effect of an elderly man's caution '' . 
`` Yes , I appreciate that . 
I wish you wouldn't tell Freddy I'm lukewarm ; ; I've caused him trouble before , and he's beginning to resent me . 
If we don't take care , the sisters will be entering the fray on opposite sides , brandishing their cudgels '' . 
`` Which is a frightful prospect , Bill '' . 
Willis laughed . 
`` One shouldn't mix commercial affairs with patriarchy , but in this case I have no choice . 
Let me think about it . 
I'm most grateful to you , so grateful I wish you were my principal aide instead of Freddy '' . 
Not to William's surprise , Freddy , Adam and Hamilton Richert prevailed ; ; allied to them was Gerry , devoting much time to swaying her father , and Joan dismissed all thought of the project and William was unwilling to interfere further . 
Zenith absorbed Allstates , stock transfers were arranged , and Freddy became president of the hyphenated combination . 
Through Jack Hamrick , William fell into the world of automobile promotion and got several accounts for Shoals and Clay . 
He forgot about A-Z till , unhappily , he and Hamrick were proved correct . 
Freddy's backing dropped away from him and Mr. Willis was forced to make up the deficit . 
Adam , beset by changing defense conditions and the open secret that he was part of the new corporation , couldn't deliver from his end . 
The Wisconsin plant turned out to be a white elephant . 
Stock Willis held in abundance fell sharply in value . 
Confronted by a grim future , Freddy lost his nerve and plumped for a drastic liquidation . 
Once more Willis summoned William . 
`` You were right '' , he said -- `` you and your engineer -- and I'm in something of a bind . 
Freddy's solution doesn't appeal to me . 
In addition to other defects , I'm a stubborn man and hate to admit to the common garden variety of bad judgment . 
Will you see if you can help me '' ? 
William spent a long week end closeted with Hamrick . 
His recent experience in motor car advertising , a love for cars of themselves , the existence of A-Z's useless Wisconsin set-up , exposure to exciting conceptions of Hamrick's that nobody would buy , and the coincidental recent failure of a respected but out-dated small-car manufacturer called Ticonderoga Motors had given him an idea of such dimensions he was almost afraid to broach it . 
Initially , Hamrick's reaction to A-Z going into the passenger car market was discouraging . 
He thought the financing , the advertising , the production of new models , the founding of a nationwide chain of dealerships was simply too difficult . 
Then he caught fire . 
If A-Z could buy Ticonderoga cheaply and use their presses and dies and other equipment , if William could hit precisely the right promotion note , if the money hurdle was not insurmountable . 
They took nearly a month to investigate , marshal statistics , and put their arguments down in black and white . 
Taking Hamrick with him , William went to Mr. Willis . 
He was surprised and dubious , but impressed by the engineer and the report . 
`` Your alternative is breathtaking '' , he said , `` and , I'm frank in saying , a bit mad . 
I wish I was younger and less timid . 
Well , I can't resolve this myself . 
I'll have to call in the brain trust . 
Are you willing to run the gantlet ? 
I can't guarantee you a sympathetic audience '' . 
`` We'll be in there swinging '' , William said , `` but in a way , sir , you've got to decide it yourself . 
You have the controlling interest and the principal expenditure is yours -- and , besides , nobody else is going to have the courage . 
If they follow anyone , it'll have to be you '' . 
He paused . 
`` I should explain : there's more here for me than advocating my little dream , there's you . 
You mustn't take a fall , or publicly back away . 
I hate that . 
You're -- you're Arthur Willis . 
Forgive the hearts and flowers theme '' . 
`` I rather like the music '' , Willis replied quietly . 
`` Thank you '' . 
At the meeting , attended by Freddy , Richert , Herberet and the A-Z executive staff , with Mr. Willis presiding , William and Hamrick did indeed run the gantlet . 
From shock and incredulity , most of the listeners went on to open resistance and animosity . 
`` Oh , my God '' , Ham Richert said , `` a little child shall lead them . 
Move over , General Motors '' . 
`` It's absurd , Bill '' , Freddy said , from a pale face . 
`` You're leading Dad down the garden path '' . 
`` Your garden , God damn it '' ! 
William said . 
`` I don't enjoy family quarrels '' , Adam said . 
`` Nor crazy relatives . 
We're here to transact business . 
Can't we put an end to this , Arthur '' ? 
`` Hear me out , please '' , William begged . 
`` I'm an advertising hustler , I admit , but I have to get hot once in a larger sphere . 
Sure , Ticonderoga went broke in the low-priced market bucking the Big Three . 
Their cars weren't small enough , they didn't have the power , they were old-fashioned . 
They tried to sell 'em on economy and simple merit . 
We've arrived at an age for romance and snobbery . 
We've all been rich and spoiled long enough to hate the machine age . 
Look what those little European jobs are doing . 
We'll woo the consumer with a product , not bludgeon him with chromed excess length and weight . 
Let's make it moonlight and the call of far places and a seduction , at reasonable rates . 
Ticonderoga folded a few minutes too soon , before the tide changed , still honest and stupid -- and the network of dealers the company had is around waiting to be signed up again -- waiting for us , ready-made . 
We've got rid of the steam yachts and Georgian houses , and the bloated , too-expensive automobile is next . 
Why not come down smartly in the world , in a chic fashion , with an Allstates-Zenith '' ? 
He swayed them somewhat , but the debate raged on . 
Financing emerged as the main obstacle . 
Mr. Willis made it evident that he had contributed his maximum . 
`` Nobody will underwrite it , I'm telling you '' , Freddy said . 
`` I know what I'm talking about in that department '' . 
`` There's plenty of risk money '' , Ham Richert added , `` but not for anything this risky '' . 
`` All right '' , William said . 
`` We'll try to swing the deal on that basis . 
If we can't raise the capital , we're through . 
Nothing has been lost . 
You're up against it anyhow . 
Why won't you give me a chance '' ? 
A silence fell . 
Heads instinctively turned in Willis' direction . 
He smiled at William and slowly rubbed his hands together . 
`` I feel I must answer the question '' , he said , `` since the onus later , if any , should fall on me -- I don't relish recriminations spread broadcast outside my family . 
I'm not giving you a chance , Bill , but availing myself of your generous offer of assistance . 
Good luck to you '' . 
`` All the in-laws have got to have their day '' , Adam said , and glared at William and Freddy in turn . 
Sweat started out on William's forehead , whether from relief or disquietude he could not tell . 
Across the table , Hamrick saluted him jubilantly with an encircled thumb and forefinger . 
Nobody else showed pleasure . 
Spike-haired , burly , red-faced , decked with horn-rimmed glasses and an Ivy League suit , Jack Hamrick awaited William at the officers' club . 
`` Hello , boss '' , he said , and grinned . 
`` I suppose I can never expect to call you ' General ' after that Washington episode '' . 
`` I'm afraid not '' . 
It was among these that Hinkle identified a photograph of Barco ! 
For it seems that Barco , fancying himself a ladies' man ( and why not , after seven marriages ? 
) , had listed himself for Mormon Beard roles at the instigation of his fourth murder victim who had said : `` With your beard , dear , you ought to be in movies '' ! 
Mills secured Barco's photograph from the gentleman in charge , rushed to the Hollywood police station to report the theft , and less than five minutes later , detectives with his picture in hand were on the trail of Cal Barco . 
On their way , they stopped at every gas station along the main boulevards to question the attendants . 
Finally , at Ye Olde Gasse Filling Station on Avocado Avenue , they learned that their man , having paused to get oil for his car , had asked about the route to San Diego . 
They headed in that direction and , at San Juan Capistrano By-the-Sea came upon Barco sitting in the quaint old Spanish Mission Drive-in , eating a hot tamale . 
At the moment , Barco's back was to the road so he didn't see the detectives close in on his convertible which , in their quest for the stolen lap rug , they proceeded to search . 
The robe , however , was missing , for by that time Barco had disposed of it at a pawnshop in Glendale . 
The detectives placed Barco under arrest and , without informing him of the nature of the charge , took him back to Hollywood for questioning . 
Thus it was that Barco , apprehended for mere larceny , now began to suspect that one or another of his murders had been uncovered . 
During the return trip , Barco kept muttering to himself in meaningless phrases , such as : `` They're under sand dunes They're better off , I tell you I saved their souls '' . 
The detective , commenting on Barco's behavior , felt that he merely belonged among the myriad citizens of our community who are mentally unhinged -- that he was a more or less harmless `` nut '' ! 
However while in his cell awaiting trial for theft , Barco , in a fit of apprehension , made an attempt to take his own life . 
The attempt had failed because , when endeavoring to cut his wrists , this murderer of seven women had fainted at the sight of blood . 
The jail authorities -- attaching no particular significance to the episode -- offered Barco whisky to revive him ; ; but the old fellow , a lifelong teetotaler , refused it , and no more was thought of the matter . 
Then it was that District Attorney Welch entered the case . 
A man of vaulting ambition , with one eye on the mayorship of Los Angeles , nothing ever escaped him which might possibly lead to personal publicity . 
It was reported to Welch's office that a thief in the city jail had attempted suicide . 
Welch wanted to know why . 
No one knew . 
Now Welch had a pet theory that everyone is guilty of breaking more laws than he ever gets caught at . 
The suicide attempt looked to him like an opportunity to put his theory to the test . 
So he paid a call on Barco in his cell and began their chat by stating bluntly : `` Barco , we've got the goods on you ! 
It'll be a lot better if you come clean '' . 
At first Barco was evasive and shifty . 
But with Welch's relentless pursuit of the subject , Barco finally `` broke '' and started confessing to one murder after another . 
By the time Barco reached the count of three , the situation seemed to Welch almost too good to be true . 
But if true , it was the case of which he had dreamed , the case which would throw him into headlines all over America as the hero of a great murder trial . 
Welch summoned jail officials to Barco's cell . 
But to Welch's chagrin , the police captain pooh-poohed Welch's credulity in Barco's confession . 
Barco was clearly a `` nut '' . 
It required strength , bravado , daring to commit murder . 
`` That worm a murderer ? 
Ridiculous '' ! 
Then , for the first time since his arrest , a glint of spirit lit Barco's eyes . 
His manhood had been attacked . 
He stiffened and rose to his feet . 
He'd show them ! 
`` Is that so '' ? 
He queried . 
`` Well , for ten years I've been murdering women . 
I can lead you to every one of the bodies , and there ain't four , nor five , nor six of 'em -- there's seven ! 
'' The next day the police captain , in derision , organized what he termed `` Welch's Wild Goose Chase '' . 
For indeed it seemed incredible that anyone could go on committing murder for ten years and not get caught at it , even in Hollywood . 
The searching party consisted of the police captain , Welch , Barco , policemen with shovels , newspaper reporters , and cameramen . 
Barco , his state of apprehension gone , never to return , had assumed a matter-of-factness which remained his principal attitude from that time on . 
He directed the cortege of autos to the sand dunes near Santa Monica . 
Stopping the cars at a fork in the road , he got out , paced off a certain distance to a spot between two shrub-covered sand hills , and indicated a location . 
Orders were given to dig . 
Nothing was found . 
Welch was worried . 
The police captain chortled . 
The newspaper boys cracked jokes and again Barco's pride was aroused . 
With greater precision he again paced off a location , this time a little more to the left . 
With quibs and gibes , the policemen again started digging . 
Welch was on edge . 
The captain was remarking that it was a nice day for a picnic when finally one of the shovels struck an object . 
`` There's something here '' ! 
Said the digger . 
Joking stopped and everyone gathered around . 
The digger , thrusting about with his shovel , now raised into view a package crudely wrapped in one of the murderer's Hollywood sport shirts . 
Although it was a mere fragment of the victim's remains , it was enough . 
Welch was wild with delight . 
His elation grew as Barco's seven disclosures brought to light one reward after another . 
Now did Welch truly become the man of the hour , and everything that followed in the procedure of Justice was a new triumph for him . 
It went to his head , and his ambition increased . 
It was apparent that Welch was in cahoots with Marshall and would use his power as D.A. to drag every possible sensation into the case . 
Every new scandal which would provide more `` copy '' for Marshall's pen would thus mean more publicity for Welch . 
I knew that both these cynics were waiting with impatience for the dramatic moment when Viola was called to the stand . 
Once there , the D.A. with devilish cleverness would provide Marshall with headlines : `` Viola's Multiple Romances '' `` Viola Lake an Addict '' `` Downfall of Another Film Idol '' ! 
It would be fine publicity for the man who was willing to walk to the mayor's throne over the broken reputation of a helpless girl ! 
I studied Welch closely as the trial progressed for any hint which might give me a lead as to how he might be thwarted . 
It wasn't long before I sensed that there was something deeper than overvaulting ambition back of his desire for Viola's destruction . 
He was bitter and resentful toward her , personally resentful . 
A dreadful fear entered my consciousness that perhaps he had entertained aspirations toward Viola's favors -- or , even more serious perhaps , that he had attained a share of them and had then been superseded by some luckier chap . 
I did not rest until I had tracked the mystery down . 
Well , here it is . 
One day over a year before , there had been a cocktail party in an apartment of a downtown hotel . 
Viola had been urged to attend , by telephone , and not knowing the host or the character of the party , she had gone . 
She arrived late and as she entered the party , noted that gentlemen seemed to be in the majority ; ; the air was thick with smoke , empty bottles were in evidence , and several of the guests were somewhat the worse for liquor . 
Naturally , Viola had no wish to remain , but she felt she couldn't leave so soon after her arrival , in all politeness to her host . 
And it so happened that adjacent to a couch on which she had taken refuge was a small table on which she noted a vase of red rosebuds ; ; while projecting from beneath the couch were a pair of feet which , as Fate would have it , belonged to District Attorney Welch . 
As Viola sat there , a playful impulse overcame her to remove the shoes and socks from the unidentified feet and , as a prank , insert rosebuds between the toes . 
A little later the district attorney woke up , emerged from under the couch , looked at his watch , and realized he had an engagement that very hour to address a meeting of the Culture Forum on `` The Civic Spirit of the Southland '' , in the Byzantine room of the hotel where his wife , as president of the forum , was to preside . 
He made his way to his host's bedroom where he carefully brushed himself off , neatly arranged his hair , and painstakingly selected his hat from the many on the bed . 
Then , noting neither the absence of his footwear nor the presence of the rosebuds , he made his way to the Byzantine room and , with his usual dignity , mounted the rostrum . 
The effect on the intellectuals among his audience may well be imagined . 
The incident , aside from reflecting on Welch's political career , had all but wrecked his home life . 
He never rested until he discovered who the culprit was , and when he did , he vowed vengeance on Viola Lake if ever the chance came his way . 
And here it was ! 
By such innocent actions are human tragedies sometimes set in motion . 
During these first days of the trial I didn't have as much time to commiserate with Viola as I should have liked . 
In the first place , it was difficult for us to meet . 
We couldn't be seen together , for the tongue of Scandal was ever ready to link our names , and the tongue of Scandal finds but one thing to say of the association of a man with a girl , no matter how innocent . 
I couldn't invite Viola to our house , for Mother snobbishly refused to receive her . 
Now the Czarship had not affected my own sense of social values , but Mother had attained a reflected glory through it , which had opened the doors of Los Angeles-Pasadena Society to her . 
There , Mother was received by the scions of aristocratic lines which are dominated by the Budweisers ( of beer derivation ) , the Chalmers ( of underwear origin ) , and the Heinzes ( whose forbears founded a nationally famous trade in pickles ) . 
I hated being dragged into the salons of these aristocrats . 
But Mother insisted , for it is seldom indeed that anyone remotely connected with the cinema is ever received in their exclusive midsts . 
In fact , it was not until the King of Spain had visited at Pickfair that Mary and Doug were beckoned to cross the sacred barriers which separate Los Angeles and Pasadena from the hoi-polloi . 
Mother even went so far as to trump up for me matrimonial opportunities with Pasadena debs who had been educated abroad , and with those of the more lenient Los Angeles area where a debutante was a girl who had been to high school . 
But at long last came a time when I broke away from Mother and her society `` chi-chi '' in order to spend a cosy evening with Viola and her chaperon at her home . 
However , such a hotbed of gossip had grown up during the trial , that every precaution had to be taken to keep my visit from being whispered to the world , Society , and even , alas , to my own mother . 
When I arrived at Viola's I was shown , to my surprise , into the kitchen . 
Viola greeted me , in checked apron , ladle in hand , and explained it was the cook's night out and that she herself was preparing dinner . 
I sat and watched proceedings . 
There was to be roast chicken with dressing , giblet gravy , asparagus , new peas with a sprig of mint , creamed onions , and mashed potatoes -- all chosen , prepared , and cooked by Viola herself . 
I realized that Hamlet was faced with an entirely different problem , but his agony could have been no greater . 
The most that was accomplished was adding Mrs. Beige's tray to the dish pile , and by means of repeated threats , on an ascending scale , seeing that the girls dressed themselves , after a fashion . 
I was saved from making the decision as the phone rang , and the girls were upon me instantly . 
Here's a household hint : if you can't find your children , and get tired of calling them , pick up the phone . 
No matter if your children are at the movies , in school , visiting their grandmother , or on a field trip in some distant city , they will be upon you magically within seconds after you pick up the phone . 
Jennie and Miranda twined themselves around me , murmuring endearments . 
Louise climbed onto a stool and clutched the hand with which I was trying to hold the phone , claiming my immediate attention on grounds of extreme emergency . 
Somehow managing to get out a cool , poised , `` Won't you hold on a second , please '' , I covered up the mouthpiece , and with more warmth and less poise , gave a quick lecture on crime and punishment , mostly the latter , including Devil's Island and the remoter reaches of Siberia . 
I promised to illustrate the lecture , if they so much as breathed till after the call was completed . 
Speaking into the phone again and recognizing the caller , I resumed my everyday voice . 
Soon we were deep in a conversation that was interrupted many times by little things like Jennie's holding her breath and pretending to black out , Miranda's dumping the contents of the sugar bowl on the table , and various screeches , thuds , and giggles . 
Under the circumstances , I had difficulty keeping up with the conversation on the phone , but when I hung up I was reasonably certain that Francesca had wanted to remind me of our town meeting the next evening , and how important it was that Hank and I be there . 
I discovered that the girls had shrewdly vacated the kitchen , and were playing quietly in the living room . 
It seemed that I would be the gainer if I accepted the peace and quiet , instead of carrying out my threats . 
Resolving to get something done , I started in on the dishes . 
No . 
I'm not saying it right . 
What I meant to say was that I started to start in on the dishes by gathering them all together in the kitchen sink . 
They looked so formidable , however , so demanding , that I found myself staring at them in dismay and starting to woolgather again , this time about Francesca and her husband . 
How about them , I thought . 
Francesca and Herbert were among the few people we knew in Catatonia . 
We didn't even know them till about a month after we moved -- at that time , they had called on us , after I met Fran at a PTA meeting , and had taken us in hand socially . 
They had been kind to us and we were indebted to them for one or two pleasant dinners , and for information as to where to shop , which dentist , doctor , plumber , and sitter to call ( not that there was much of a choice , since Catatonia was just a village ; ; the yellow pages of the telephone book were amazingly thin ) . 
They were `` personalities '' . 
Herb , an expert on narrow ties , thin lapels , and swatches , was men's fashion editor of Parvenu , the weekly magazine with the tremendous circulation . 
Fran and he had met about two years after she had arrived in Manhattan from Nebraska , or was it Wyoming ? 
She was the daughter and sole heiress of either a cattle baron or an oil millionaire and , having arrived in New York with a big bank roll , became a dabbler in various fields . 
She patronized Greenwich Village artists for awhile , then put some money into a Broadway show which was successful ( terrible , but successful ) . 
It was during her `` writing '' period that she and Herb met and decided that they were in love . 
They were married at a lavish ceremony which was duly recorded in Parvenu and all other magazines and newspapers , and then they honeymooned in Bermuda . 
No , not Bermuda . 
Bermuda was not in style that year . 
They had honeymooned in Rome ; ; everyone was very high on Rome that year . 
They had bought their house in Catatonia after investigating all the regions of suburbia surrounding New York ; ; they had chosen Catatonia because of its reputation for excellent schools , beaches , and abundance of names . 
`` You are bound to get involved with people when you have children '' , Fran had told me at our first meeting , `` so it is good to know that those with whom you get involved are not just dreary little housewives and dull husbands , but People Who Do Things '' . 
I admired their easy way of doing things but I couldn't escape an uneasiness at their way of always doing the right things . 
Their house was a centuries-old Colonial which they had had restored ( guided by an eminent architect ) and updated , and added on to . 
It had a gourmet's corner ( instead of a kitchen ) , a breakfast room , a luncheon room , a dining room , a sitting room , a room for standing up , a party room , dressing rooms for everybody , even a room for mud . 
It was all set up so there would be no dust anywhere and so that their children would color in the coloring room , paint in the painting room , play with blocks in the block house , and do all the other things in the proper rooms at exactly the right time . 
Their two boys were `` well adjusted '' and , like their parents , always did the right thing at the right time and damn the consequences . 
Francesca and Herbert considered themselves violently nonconformist and showed the world they were by filling their Colonial house with contemporary furniture and paintings and other art objects ( expensive , but not necessarily valuable , contemporary things ) . 
Fran flaunted her independence by rebelling against the Catatonia uniform of Bermuda shorts and knee-length socks by wearing Bermuda shorts and knee-length socks in colors ; ; bright pinks and plaids and vivid stripes . 
Sometimes she even wore the uniform in solid , unrelieved black , and with her blonde hair cut so closely , wearing this uniform , she strongly resembled a member of the SS. . 
No one could dislike them , I thought . 
Sometimes , though , they did not seem quite human . 
It seemed , indeed , that their house was not so much a home , but rather a perfect stage set , and that they were actors who had been handed fat roles in a successful play , and had talent enough to fill the roles competently , with nice understatement . 
Practically the only enthusiasm they showed was when they were discussing `` names '' ; ; even brand names . 
You should hear the reverence in Fran's voice when she said `` Baccarat '' or `` Steuben '' or `` Madame Alexander '' . 
She always let it be known that there was wine in the pot roast or that the chicken had been marinated in brandy , and that Koussevitzky's second cousin was an intimate of theirs . 
I wouldn't have wasted time puzzling over this couple were it not for my fear that all the other inhabitants of Catatonia were equally unreal . 
I couldn't feel at home among them . 
Besides Francesca , there was Blanche . 
Francesca was pleasant and charming , but Blanche was sweet . 
Yes , Blanche was very , very sweet -- being in her company was like being drowned in warm , melted marshmallows . 
I had once been a witness when Blanche had smiled and said with only minimum ruefulness , `` Oh , my souffle has collapsed '' . 
Anyone knows how a real , red-blooded woman would react to such a catastrophe ! 
If Blanche had been honest , she would have yelled , slammed at least a couple of doors , and thrown a few little , valueless things . 
But dear me , no ; ; not Blanche . 
After five minutes with Blanche , one might welcome the astringency of Grazie , who was a sort of Gwen Cafritz to Francesca's Perle Mesta . 
Francesca and Grazie were habitual committee chairmen and they usually managed to be elected co-chairmen , equal bosses , of whatever PTA or civic project was being launched . 
They were inseparable , not because they were fond of each other , but because they wanted to keep an eye on each other , as they were keen rivals for social leadership . 
Grazie was mean : quietly mean , and bitterly , unfunnily sarcastic . 
She it was who had looked to see if I was wearing shoes upon learning that I couldn't drive . 
Grazie had a small , slick head and her hair and skin were the color of golden toast . 
She lived in an ultra-modern house whose decoration , appointments , paint , and even pets were chosen to complement her coloring ; ; the pets were a couple of Siamese cats . 
Her uniform was of rich , raw silk , in a shade which matched her hair , skin , housepaint , and cats , and since she was so thin as to be almost shapeless , she rather resembled a frozen fish stick . 
The husbands of these women and others I had met in Catatonia were distinguished only in that they were , to me at least , indistinguishable . 
I couldn't tell one from the other . 
Like Herbert , they were all in communications : radio , television , magazines , and advertising . 
One or two were writers of books ; ; all were fellows of finite charm . 
Each had developed a hair-trigger chuckle and the habit of saying `` zounds '' ! 
In deference to country-squirehood . 
I never thought I'd live to hear people chuckle and say `` zounds '' ! 
In real life . 
I wouldn't have missed it for anything . 
They were `` sincere '' -- men of the too-hearty handclasp and the urgent smile . 
These boys acknowledged an introduction to anybody by gently pressing one of his hands in both of theirs , while they gazed , misty-eyed with care , into the eyes of the person they were meeting . 
Could such unadulterated love , for a total stranger , be credited ? 
They were always leaping to light cigarettes , open car doors , fill plates or glasses , and I mistrusted the whole lot of them to the same degree that I mistrusted bake shops that called themselves `` Sanitary Bake Shops '' . 
`` O ! 
Pioneers ! 
'' I thought , and wondered what kind of homesteads such odd pioneers would establish in this suburban frontier ; ; pioneers who looked like off-duty gardeners even at parent-teacher conferences and who never called the school principal `` Mister '' . 
I sighed , thinking that among other things , people here seemed to be those who would have to cut down if they earned less than $85,000 yearly ; ; people who would give their teeth for a chance to get on `` Person to Person '' ; ; people who thought it was nice to be important , but not important to be nice ; ; who were more ingratiating than gracious , more personalities than persons . 
In my estimation , they were people who read Daphne du Maurier , and discussed Kafka ; ; well , not discussed him exactly , but said , `` Kafka '' ! 
Reverently and raised their eyes , as if they were at a loss to describe how they felt about Kafka , which they were , because they had no opinions about Kafka , not having read Kafka . 
They were , I felt , people invariably trying to prove not who , but what they were , and trying to determine what , not who , others were . 
Becoming aware that it was nearly lunchtime , I brought myself back to the tasks at hand . 
I made plans for the afternoon -- doing the breakfast and luncheon dishes all at once , making the beds , and then maybe painting the kitchen . 
Then , I remembered that the girls had had a banana for dessert every day for the last week . 
`` Bananas '' ! 
Jennie had shouted each time . 
`` They're not dessert ! 
They're not even food . 
They're just something you're supposed to put on cereal for breakfast '' . 
I dug around and found a mix , and was able to surprise them with a devil's-food cake with chocolate icing . 
( Sometimes I think you need only one rule for cooking : if you can't put garlic in it , put chocolate in it . 
) The cake was received in a stunned silence that was evidence in itself of the dearth of taste thrills Mama had been providing . 
Then Jennie closed her eyes , stretched forth her arms , and said : `` Take my hand , Louise ; ; I'm a stranger in paradise '' . 
Needless to say , I was furious at this unparalleled intrusion upon free enterprise . 
How dared they demand to `` snoop '' in private financial records , disbursements , confidential contracts and agreements ? 
`` It is as though '' , I said on the historic three-hour , coast-to-coast radio broadcast which I bought ( following Father Coughlin and pre-empting the Eddie Cantor , Manhattan Merry-go-round and Major Bowes shows ) `` That Man in the White House , like some despot of yore , insisted on reading my diary , raiding my larder and ransacking my lingerie ! 
'' My impassioned plea for civil rights created a landslide of correspondence and one sponsor even asked me to consider replacing the Eddie Cantor comedy hour on a permanent basis . 
But what quarter could a poor defenseless woman expect from a dictator who would even make so bold as to close all of the banks in our great nation ? 
The savage barbarian hordes of red Russian Communism descended on the Athens that was mighty Metronome , sacking and despoiling with their Bolshevistic battle cry of `` Soak the rich ' ! 
After an unspeakable siege , lasting the better part of two months , it was announced that the studio `` owed '' the government a tax debt in excess of eight million dollars while I , who had always remained aloof from such iniquitous practices as paying taxes on the salary I had earned and the little I legally inherited as Morris' helpless relict , was `` stung '' with a personal bill of such astronomical proportions as to `` wipe out '' all but a fraction of my poor , hard-come-by savings . 
I was also publicly reprimanded , dragged through the mud by the radical press and made a figure of fun by such leftist publications as The New Republic , The New Yorker , Time and The Christian Science Monitor . 
It was then that I availed myself of the rights of a citizen and declared the income tax unconstitutional . 
The litigation was costly and seemingly endless . 
I fought like a tigress but by the time I appealed my case to the Supreme Court ( 1937 ) , Mr. Roosevelt and his `` henchmen '' had done their `` dirty work '' all too well , even going so far as to attempt to `` pack '' the highest tribunal in the land in order to defeat little me . 
Presidential coercion had succeeded not only in poisoning the courtiers , `` toadies '' and sycophants of the `` bench '' against me , but it had been so far-reaching as to discourage any lawyer in the nation from representing me ! 
I was ready , like Portia , to present my own brief . 
But the Supreme Court wouldn't even hear my case ! 
My plea was unanimously voted down and `` thrown out '' . 
Again , my name was on all the front pages . 
I was , it seemed , persona non grata in every quarter , but not entirely without a staunch following of noted political thinkers and students of jurisprudence . 
As Charles Evans Hughes said , `` Miss Poitrine's limitations as an actress are exceeded only by her logic as a litigant '' . 
Albert Einstein was quoted as saying : `` The workings of the woman's mind amaze me '' . 
Henry Ford spoke of me as `` utterly astounding '' . 
Heywood Broun wrote : `` Belle Poitrine is the most original thinker since Caligula '' , and even F.D.R. had to concede that `` if the rest of this nation showed the foresight and patriotism of Miss Poitrine , America would rapidly resemble ancient Babylon and Nineveh '' . 
Not only were the court costs prohibitive , but I was subjected to crippling fines , in addition to usurious interest on the unpaid `` debts '' which the government claimed that Metronome and I owed -- a severe financial blow . 
Nor , as Manny said , had the notoriety done my career `` any good '' . 
My enemies were only too anxious to level against me such charges as `` reactionary '' , `` robber baroness '' , and even `` traitor '' ! 
Traitor indeed ! 
I point now with pride to the fact that , long ere the Committee on Un-American Activities , the Minute Women , the Economic Council and other such notable `` watchdog '' organizations were so much as heard of , I was Hollywood's leading bulwark against communism , fighting single-handedly `` creeping socialism '' against such insuperable odds as the Fascio-Communist troops of the NRA , PWA , WPA , CCC and an army of more than twenty-two million mercenaries whom F.D.R. employed secretly , through the transparent ruse of regular `` relief '' checks . 
Needless to say , my art suffered drastically during this turbulent period . 
Could it do otherwise ? 
Even though I have always had a genius for `` throwing myself '' into every role and `` playing it for all it's worth '' , no actress can be expected to do her best work when her fortune , her reputation , her livelihood , her home and her nation itself are all imperilled . 
Such sweeping distractions are hardly conducive to `` Oscar '' winning performances . 
I tried my hardest , with little help , may I say , from my husband and leading man , but somehow the outside pressures were too severe . 
Having ( through my unflagging effort and devotion ) achieved stardom , a fortune and a world-renowned wife at an age when most young men are casting their first vote , Letch proceeded to neglect them all . 
Never a `` quick study '' , he now made no attempt to learn his `` lines '' and many a mile of film was wasted , many a scene -- sometimes involving as many as a thousand fellow thespians -- was taken thirty , forty , fifty times because Miss Poitrine's co-star and `` helpmate '' had never learned his part . 
Each time Letch `` went up '' in his `` lines '' , I was the one to be patient , helpful and apologetic while he indulged in outbursts of temperament , profanity and abuse , blaming others , going into `` sulks '' and , on more occasions than I care to count , storming off the `` set '' for the rest of the day . 
As for his finances , I was never privileged to know exactly how much money Letch had `` salted away '' . 
It was I who paid for our little home , the food , the liquor , the servants -- even Letch's bills at his tailor and the Los Angeles Athletic Club . 
Never once did he buy me a single gift and for our third anniversary he gave me a dislocated jaw . 
( But that is another story . 
) As for his private monies , they were rapidly dissipated in drinking , gaming and carousing . 
More than once I was confronted by professional gamblers , `` bookies '' , loan `` sharks '' , gangsters , `` thugs '' and `` finger men '' -- people of a class I did not even know existed -- to repay my husband's staggering losses , `` or else '' I shuddered to think that someone so dear to me could even associate with such a sinister milieu . 
And at three different times during our turbulent marriage strange girls , with the commonest of accents , telephoned to announce to me that Letch had sired their unborn children ! 
Having the deepest of maternal instincts , my heart fairly bled when I thought of the darling pink and white `` bundles from heaven '' I would have proudly given my husband . 
`` Ah , you're too old '' , was invariably his ungallant and untrue retort whenever I suggested `` starting a family '' . 
Letch had made it abundantly clear that he did not care for the company of my own precious daughter . 
I now felt it wiser to keep Baby-dear in school and -- during the summers -- at a camp run by the Society of Friends all year around . 
Her presence only made Letch more distant and irritable and , in the hurry of buying Chateau Belletch , I had neglected to consider a room for Baby-dear , so there was no place to put her , anyhow . 
( I sometimes feel that God , in His infinite wisdom , wants us to have these inexplicable little lapses of memory . 
It almost always works out for the best . 
) Yet I adored this man , Letch Feeley , why , I cannot say . 
With faint heart and a brave smile , I endured his long absences from Chateau Belletch , his coldness , his indifference , his slights and his abuse . 
The times I can recall when I was publicly humiliated by him -- lovely dinner parties in our Trianon Suite where the collation was postponed and postponed and postponed , only to be served dry and overcooked at a table where the host's chair was vacant ; ; a `` splash party '' at the new pool , which I had built in the hope of keeping Letch away from public beaches , when Letch and a certain Aquacutie stayed underwater together for the better part of an hour ; ; a lovely Epiphany party at Errol Flynn's , on which sacred occasion Letch stole away with an unknown `` starlet '' , leaving me `` high and dry '' to get home as best I could . 
These are but a sampling of the insults I endured . 
As Mrs. Letch Feeley , was it any wonder that I , once the social arbiter of Filmdom , was excluded from the smart entertainments given by the Astaires , the Coopers , the Gables , the Colmans , the Rathbones , the Taylors , the Thalbergs and such devout , closely knit families as the Barrymores and the Crosbys ? 
As Letch's antisocial conduct increased , our invitations decreased and my heart was in my mouth whenever I played hostess at a fashionable `` screenland '' gathering . 
Between 1935 and 1939 Letch and I made ten films together , each less successful , both artistically and commercially , than the one before it . 
Our last joint venture , Sainted Lady , a deeply religious film based on the life of Mother Cabrini , and timed so that its release date would coincide with the beatification of America's first saint in November , 1938 , was a fiasco from start to finish . 
As I was playing Mother Cabrini , the picture was actually `` all mine '' , with nearly every scene built around me . 
But in order to keep Letch in the public eye and out of trouble , I wrote in a part especially for him -- that of a dashing ruffian who `` sees the light '' and is saved by the inspiring example of Mother Cabrini . 
And did he appreciate my efforts on his behalf ? 
Did he trouble to memorize the very small part which I had `` tailor-made '' to his specifications , a role eventually cut down to three short speeches ? 
Did he show the rest of the cast -- numbering four thousand -- the consideration of arriving at the studio punctually -- or even at all ? 
He did not ! 
The `` shooting '' went on for eight months ! 
Most of our working days were spent on the telephone calling `` bookies '' , illegal gambling dens , a certain `` residential club for young actresses '' , more than a hundred different bars or the steam room of the athletic club . 
Whenever he deigned to appear at the studio he was `` hung over '' , uncooperative , rude and insulting . 
He made many tasteless , irreverent and unfunny remarks , not only about me in the title role , but about religion in general . 
By the time the film was released we were three million dollars over-spent , war was imminent and the public apparently had forgotten all about Mother Cabrini . 
Thanks to Letch Feeley and the terrible strain he imposed on me , the notices were few and unfavorable . 
Only George Santayana seemed to understand and appreciate the film when he wrote : `` Miss Poitrine has perpetrated the most eloquent argument for the Protestant faith yet unleashed by Hollywood '' . 
But it was small consolation . 
In a rare fit of anger and spite , I `` farmed out '' my own husband to a small and most undistinguished studio to make one picture as a form of punishment . 
( An actor must have discipline . 
) The film was called The Diet of Worms , which I felt was just what Letch deserved . 
It turned out to be a life of Martin Luther , of all things ! 
It was a disaster ! 
In clothes , Letch simply did not project . 
He was laughed off the screen . 
At the same time , however , I availed myself of the services of that great English actor and master of make-up , Sir Gauntley Pratt , to do a `` quickie '' called The Mystery of the Mad Marquess , in which I played a young American girl who inherits a haunted castle on the English moors which is filled with secret passages and sliding panels and , unbeknownst to anyone , is still occupied by an eccentric maniac . 
It was a `` potboiler '' made on a `` shoestring '' and not the sort of film I like , as all I had to do was look blank and scream a great deal . 
My heart was not in it , but , oddly enough , it remains the most financially successful picture of my career . 
( I watched it on television late one night last week and it `` stands up '' remarkably well , even twenty years later . 
) Letch had returned from his debacle unrepentant and more badly behaved than before . 
I really loved that boy , and , in a feverish attempt to preserve our marriage and to try to revive the wonderful , wonderful person Letch had once been , I took my troubles to Momma , hoping that her earthy advice would help me . 
`` If I could only think of something at the studio , near me , to absorb his boundless energy '' , I said . 
`` What is Letch interested in '' ? 
`` Bookies , booze and babes '' , Momma said bluntly . 
Her reply stung me , but this was too important to let my hurt make any difference . 
`` I can't turn the studio into a gambling hell or a saloon '' , I said . 
Up to date , however , his garden was still more or less of a mess , he hadn't even started his workshop and if there was a meadow pond in the neighborhood he hadn't found it . 
It wasn't his fault that these things were so . 
The difficulty was that each day seemed to produce its quota of details which must be cleaned up immediately . 
As a result , life had become a kind of continuous make-ready . 
Once he disposed of these items which screamed so harshly for attention , he could undertake the things which really counted . 
Then , at last , his day would fall into an ordered pattern and he would be free to read , or garden or just wander through the woods in the late afternoon , accompanied by his dogs . 
His dogs ? 
He had almost forgotten them , although they had played such an important part in his early dreams . 
Then they had always been romping around him on these walks , yelping with delight , dashing off into the bushes on fruitless hunting expeditions , returning to jump up on him triumphantly with muddy paws . 
Dogs did something to one's ego . 
They were constantly assuring you that you were one of the world's great guys . 
Regardless of how much of a slob you knew yourself to be , you could be certain they would never find out -- and even if they did it would make no difference . 
Now it became increasingly apparent that there were to be no dogs in the picture . 
What in the world were you going to do with a lot of dogs when you left for town on Monday afternoons ? 
You certainly couldn't take them into the little apartment and if you tried to farm them out for two or three days every week they would become so confused that they would have nervous breakdowns . 
Why in the world couldn't he live in one place the way everyone else seemed to ? 
It worried him , this inability to get the simplest things done in the course of a day . 
He would wake up in the middle of the night and fret about it . 
How in the world had he formerly found time to build up a business , raise a family , be on half a dozen boards , work actively on committees and either go out in the evening or plow through the contents of a bulging brief case ? 
Was it possible that as people grow older the nature of time changed ? 
Could it be that it speeded up for the aged in some mysterious way , as if a bored universe were skipping through the end of the chapter just to get it over with ? 
Or was the answer less metaphysical ? 
Did older people work more slowly ? 
Did it take a man of sixty-five longer to write a letter , shave , clean out a barn , read a newspaper , than a man of thirty ? 
Did men become perfectionists as they grew older , polishing , polishing , reluctant to let go ? 
It might be that certain people were born with a compulsion to complicate their lives , while others could live blissfully motionless almost indefinitely , like lizards in the sun , too indolent to blink their eyes . 
Perhaps it was his misfortune , or good fortune , whichever way one looked at it , to belong to the former group , and he was struggling unconsciously to build up pressure in a world which demanded none , which was positively antagonistic to it . 
And then again perhaps the reason why he couldn't find time to do any of the things he had planned to do after retirement : reading , roaming , gardening , lying on his back and watching the clouds go by , was because he didn't want to do them . 
There was no compulsion behind them . 
They could be done or left undone and nobody really gave a damn . 
During all his busy life he had only done things which had to be done . 
This habit had become so fixed over the years that it seemed futile to do anything for which no one was waiting . 
He looked at the luminous dial of his wrist watch . 
It was five minutes after four . 
On some distant farm a rooster crowed and , far down the valley , an associate answered . 
He turned over impatiently and pulled the sheet over his head against the treacherous encroachment of the dawn . 
At least he could buy the equipment for his workshop . 
Thus committed , action might follow . 
He went down to Mills and Bradley's Hardware Store and bought a full set of carpenter's tools , including a rotary power saw and several other pieces of power machinery that Mr. Mills said were essential for babbiting and doweling , whatever they were . 
He also bought a huge square of pegboard for hanging up his tools , and lumber for his workbench , sandpaper and glue and assorted nails , levels and T squares and plumb lines and several gadgets that he had no idea how to use or what they were for . 
`` There '' , said Mr. Mills . 
`` That'll get you started . 
Best not to get everything at once . 
Add things as you find you need 'em '' . 
He didn't even ask the cost of this collection . 
After all , if you were going to set up a workshop you had to have the proper equipment and that was that . 
When he returned home , the station wagon loaded with tools , Jinny had gone with a friend to some meeting in the village , using the recently purchased second car . 
He was glad . 
It gave him a chance to unload the stuff and get it down to the cellar without a barrage of acid comments . 
He had made such a fuss about buying that second car that he knew he was vulnerable . 
He piled everything neatly in a corner of the cellar and turned to stare at the blank stone wall . 
That was where the pegboard would go on which he would hang his hand tools . 
In front of it would be his workbench . 
The old nightmare which had caused him so many wakeful hours came charging in on him once more , only this time he couldn't pacify it with a sleeping pill and send it away . 
How in the world did one attach a pegboard to a stone wall ? 
How did one attach anything to a stone wall , for that matter ? 
After the pegboard there would be the paneling . 
He sat down on an old box and focused on the problem . 
Perhaps one bored holes in the stone with some kind of an electric gadget . 
But then , when you stuck things into the holes , why didn't they come right out again ? 
It all seemed rather hopeless . 
He turned his attention to the workbench . 
Perhaps that was the first thing to do . 
A workbench had a heavy top and sturdy legs , but how did you attach sturdy legs to a heavy top so that the whole thing didn't wobble like a newborn calf and ultimately collapse when you leaned on it ? 
Mr. Mills had done some figuring on a scrap of paper and given him the various kinds of boards and two-by-fours which , properly handled , would , he had assured him , turn into a workbench . 
They lay on the cellar floor in a disorderly pile . 
Mr. Crombie poked at it gingerly with his foot . 
How could anyone know what to do with an assortment like that ? 
Perhaps he had better have someone help him put up the pegboard and build the workbench -- someone who knew what he was about . 
Then at least he would have a place to hang his tools and something to work on . 
After that everything should be simpler . 
He went upstairs to phone Crumb . 
To his amazement he reached him . 
Mr. Crumb was laid up with a bad cold . 
He didn't seem to think that attaching a pegboard to a stone wall was much of a problem and he tossed off the building of the worktable equally lightly . 
The only trouble was that he himself was tied up on the school job . 
That was why he hadn't been able to finish the porch . 
No , he didn't know of any handyman-carpenter . 
There wasn't any such thing any more . 
Carpenters all wanted steady work and at the moment every mother's son for twenty miles around that could hammer nails for twenty-five dollars a day was working on the school job . 
There was a fellow named Blatz over Smithtown way . 
Nobody liked to hire him because you never could tell when he was going to be taken drunk . 
Mr. Crumb would probably see him at Lodge Meeting the next night . 
If he was sober , which was doubtful , he'd have him get in touch with Mr. Crombie . 
Mr. Blatz had been at least sober enough to remember to telephone and he turned out to be the greatest boon that had come into Mr. Crombie's life since he moved to Highfield , in spite of the fact that he didn't work very fast or very long at a time , and he didn't like to work at all unless Mr. Crombie hung around and talked to him . 
He said he was the lonely type and working in a cellar you saw funny things coming out of the cracks in the wall if they wasn't nobody with you . 
So Mr. Crombie sat on a wooden box and talked in order to keep Mr. Blatz's mind from funny things . 
At the same time he watched carefully to see how one attached pegboards to stone walls , but Mr. Blatz was usually standing in his line of vision and it all seemed so simple that he didn't like to disclose his ignorance . 
While Mr. Blatz was putting up the pegboards and starting the workbench , Mr. Crombie told him of this idea about paneling the whole end of the cellar . 
Mr. Blatz agreed that this would be pretty . 
Without further discussion he appeared the next morning with a pile of boards sticking over the end of his light truck and proceeded with the paneling , which he then stained and waxed according to his taste . 
`` Now '' , he said , `` we got to put in some outlets for them power tools ; ; then a couple of fluorescent lamps over the workbench an' I guess we're about through down here '' . 
It all did look very efficient and shipshape . 
There was no question of that . 
`` By the way '' , said Mr. Blatz , packing his tools into a battered carrier , `` them power tools needs extra voltage . 
I guess you know about that . 
Before you use 'em the light company's got to run in a heavy line and you'll need a new fuse box for the extra circuits . 
That ain't too bad 'ceptin' the light company's so busy you can't ever get 'em to do nothin' '' . 
Instead of being depressed by this news , Mr. Crombie was actually relieved . 
At least the moment was postponed when he had to face the mystery of the power tools . 
He followed Mr. Blatz up the cellar stairs . 
As usual , Mrs. Crombie was standing in the midst of a confusion of cooking utensils . 
Mr. Blatz sat down in the only unoccupied kitchen chair . 
`` Well '' , he said , `` got your man fixed up nice down there . 
He oughta be able to build a new house with all them contraptions '' . 
Mr. Crombie watched his wife with an anxious expression . 
`` I was just sayin' to him that I'm all ready now for anything else you want done '' . 
Mr. Crombie couldn't remember his saying any such thing . 
`` Oh , that's wonderful '' , cried Mrs. Crombie . 
`` I have a thousand things for you to do . 
Doors that won't open , and doors that won't close and shelves and broken -- '' `` But those are the things I built the workshop for '' , protested Mr. Crombie . 
`` Those are the things I can do , now that I'm set up '' . 
`` I've been waiting to get these things done for months '' , she said . 
`` We won't live long enough if I wait for you , besides which you don't need to worry -- there'll be plenty more '' . 
But the discussion was academic . 
Mr. Blatz was already taking measurements for a shelf above the kitchen sink . 
Ambiguity Nothing in English has been ridiculed as much as the ambiguous use of words , unless it be the ambiguous use of sentences . 
Ben Franklin said , `` Clearly spoken , Mr. Fogg . 
You explain English by Greek '' . 
Richard Brinsley Sheridan said , `` I think the interpreter is the hardest to be understood of the two '' . 
And a witty American journalist remarked over a century ago what is even more true today , `` Many a writer seems to think he is never profound except when he can't understand his own meaning '' . 
There are many types of ambiguity and many of them have been described by rhetoricians under such names as amphibology , parisology , and other ologies . 
In common parlance they would be described as misses -- misinterpreters , misunderstanders , misdirectors and kindred misdeeds . 
One species of ambiguity tries to baffle by interweaving repetition . 
`` Did you or did you not say what I said you said , because Jane said you never said what I said '' ? 
Another woman , addressing Christmas cards , said to her husband : `` We sent them one last year but they didn't send us one , so they probably won't send us one this year because they'll think we won't send them one because they didn't last year , don't you think , or shall we '' ? 
Such ambiguous exercises compound confusion by making it worse compounded , and they are sometimes expanded until the cream of the jest sours . 
Ambiguity of a non-repetitious kind describes the dilemma one girl found herself in . 
`` I'm terribly upset '' , she told a girl-friend . 
`` I wrote Bill in my last letter to forget that I had told him that I didn't mean to reconsider my decision not to change my mind -- and he seems to have misunderstood me '' . 
Evidently Bill was another of those men who simply don't understand women . 
Another case involves a newspaper reporter who tripped up a politician . 
`` Mr. Jones , you may recall that we printed last week your denial of having retracted the contradiction of your original statement . 
Now would you care to have us say that you were misquoted in regard to it '' ? 
Questions like this , framed in verbal fog , are perhaps the only kind that have ever stumped an experienced politician . 
They recall Byron's classic comment : `` I wish he would explain his explanation '' . 
Similarly , when a reporter once questioned Lincoln in cryptic fashion , Lincoln refused to make any further statement . 
`` I fear explanations explanatory of things explained '' , he said , leaving the biter bit -- and bitter . 
The obscurity of politicians may not always be as innocent as it looks . 
`` Senator '' , said an interviewer , `` your constituents can't understand from your speech last night just how you stand on the question '' . 
`` Good '' ! 
Replied the Senator . 
`` It took me five hours to write it that way '' . 
The misplaced modifier is another species more honored in the observance of obscurity than in the breach . 
This creates an amusing effect because its position in a sentence seems to make it apply to the wrong word . 
A verse familiar to all grammarians is the quatrain : `` I saw a man once beat his wife When on a drunken spree . 
Now can you tell me who was drunk -- The man , his wife , or me '' ? 
The `` wooden-leg '' gag of vaudeville , another standby of this sort , had endless variations . 
`` There's a man outside with a wooden leg named Smith '' . 
`` What's the name of his other leg '' ? 
Another stock vaudeville gag ran : `` Mother is home sick in bed with the doctor '' . 
When radio came in , it continued the misplaced modifier in its routines as a standard device . 
`` Do you see that pretty girl standing next to the car with slacks on '' ? 
`` I see the girl but I don't see the car with slacks on '' . 
In recent years gagwriters have discovered this brand of blunder and thus the misplaced modifier has acquired a new habitat in the gagline . 
In one cartoon a family is shown outside a theater with the head of the family addressing the doorman : `` Excuse me , but when we came out we found that we had left my daughter's handbag and my wife's behind '' . 
Journalism supplies us with an endless run of such slips . 
Not long ago a newspaper advised those taking part in a contest that `` snapshots must be of a person not larger than Af inches '' . 
Classified ads are also chockfull of misrelated constructions . 
Readers of the Reader's Digest are familiar with such items which often appear in its lists of verbal slips , like the ad in a California paper that advertised `` House for rent . 
View takes in five counties , two bedrooms '' . 
Since brevity is the soul of ambiguity as well as wit , newspaper headlines continually provide us with amusing samples . 
`` Officials Meet on rubbish . 
Many Shapes in bathtubs . 
Son and Daughter of Local Couple Married '' . 
Apart from misplaced modifiers and headlinese , journalism contributes a wide variety of comic ambiguities in both editorial and advertising matter . 
A weekly newspaper reported a local romance : `` and the couple were married last Saturday , thus ending a friendship which began in their schooldays '' . 
An item in the letters column of a newspaper renewed a subscription , adding : `` I personally enjoy your newspaper as much as my husband '' . 
Then there was the caterer's ad which read : `` are you getting married or having an affair ? 
We have complete facilities to accommodate 200 people '' . 
The newspaper too is the favorite habitat of the anatomical . 
This slip is so-called because its semi-ambiguous English always seems to refer to a person's anatomy but never quite means what it seems to say . 
Samples : He walked in upon her invitation . 
She kissed him passionately upon his reappearance . 
He kissed her back . 
Not without good reason has the anatomical been called jocular journalese . 
In news items a man is less often shot in the body or head than in the suburbs . 
`` While Henry Morgan was escorting Miss Vera Green from the church social last Saturday night , a savage dog attacked them and bit Mr. Morgan on the public square '' . 
Such items recall the California journalist who reported an accident involving a movie star : `` The area in which Miss N -- was injured is spectacularly scenic '' . 
The double meaning in the anatomical made it a familiar vaudeville device , as in the gags of Weber and Fields . 
When a witness at court was asked if he had been kicked in the ensuing rumpus , he replied , `` No , it was in the stomach '' . 
Strangely enough , this always brought the house down . 
Apart from journalese and vaudeville gags , the anatomical is also found in jocular literature . 
A conscientious girl became the secretary of a doctor . 
Her first day at work she was puzzled by an entry in the doctor's notes on an emergency case . 
It read : `` Shot in the lumbar region '' . 
After a moment of thought , her mind cleared and , in the interest of clarity , she typed into the record : `` Shot in the woods '' . 
There are many grammatical misconstructions other than dangling modifiers and anatomicals which permit two different interpretations . 
At the home of a gourmet the new maid was instructed in the fine points of serving . 
`` I want the fish served whole , with head and tail '' , the epicure explained , `` and serve it with lemon in mouth '' . 
The maid demurred . 
`` That's silly -- lemon in mouth '' , she said . 
But since the gourmet insisted that it is done that way at the most fashionable dinners , the girl reluctantly agreed . 
So she brought the fish in whole , and she carried a lemon in her mouth . 
Another specimen of such double-entendre is illustrated by a woman in a department store . 
She said to the saleslady , `` I want a dress to put on around the house '' . 
The puzzled saleslady inquired , `` How large is your house , Madam '' ? 
This saleslady was a failure in the dress department and was transferred to the shoe department . 
When a customer asked for alligator shoes , she said , `` What size is your alligator '' ? 
The comic indefinite comprises an extensive class of comedy . 
One species is restricted to statements which are neither explicit nor precise regarding a particular person , place , time or thing . 
A woman met a famous author at a literary tea . 
`` Oh , I'm so delighted to meet you '' , she gushed . 
`` It was only the other day that I saw something of yours , about something or other , in some magazine '' . 
This baffling lack of distinct details recalls the secretary whose employer was leaving the office and told her what to answer if anyone called in his absence . 
`` I may be back '' , he explained , `` and then again , I may not '' . 
The girl nodded understandingly . 
`` Yes , sir '' , she said , `` is that definite '' ? 
An old-fashioned mother said to her modern daughter , `` You must have gotten in quite late last night , dear . 
Where were you '' ? 
The daughter replied , `` Oh , I had dinner with -- well , you don't know him but he's awfully nice -- and we went to a couple of places -- I don't suppose you've heard of them -- and we finished up at a cute little night club -- I forget the name of it . 
Why , it's all right , isn't it , Mother '' ? 
Her woolly-minded parent agreed . 
`` Of course , dear '' , she said . 
`` It's only that I like to know where you go '' . 
No less ambiguous was the indefinity of a certain clergyman's sermon . 
`` Dearly beloved '' , he preached , `` unless you repent of your sins in a measure , and become converted to a degree , you will , I regret to say , be damned to a more or less extent '' . 
This clergyman should have referred to Shakespeare's dictum : `` So-so is a good , very good , very excellent maxim . 
And yet it is not . 
It is but so-so '' . 
Indefinite reference also carries double-meaning where an allusion to one person or thing seems to refer to another . 
A news item described the launching of a ship : `` Completing the ceremony , the beautiful movie star smashed a bottle of champagne over her stern as she slid gracefully down the ways into the sea '' . 
This is not unlike the order received by the sergeant of an army motor pool : `` Four trucks to Fort Mason gym , 7:30 tonight , for hauling girls to dance . 
The bodies must be cleaned and seats wiped off '' . 
A politician was approached by a man seeking the office of a minor public official who had just died . 
`` What are my chances for taking Joe's place '' ? 
He asked . 
`` If you can fix it up with the undertaker '' , returned the politician , `` it's all right with me '' . 
The manager of a movie theater received a telephone call from a woman who was equally indefinite . 
`` What have you got on today '' ? 
She inquired . 
`` A blue suit '' , he answered . 
`` Who's in it '' ? 
She continued . 
`` I am '' , he said . 
There was a short pause for reflection . 
`` Oh '' , said the woman , `` I've seen that picture already '' . 
Another brand of indefinite reference arises out of the use of the double verb . 
When a question contains two verbs , the response does not make clear which of them is being answered . 
The moonlit night was made for romance , and he had been looking at her soulfully for some time . 
Finally he asked , `` Do you object to petting '' ? 
`` That's one thing I've never done '' , she said promptly . 
He thought a moment , then inquired , `` You mean petted '' ? 
`` No '' , she smiled , `` objected '' . 
Replies to requests for character reference are notorious for their evasive double-entendre . 
It would be hard to find anything more equivocal than : `` I cannot recommend him too highly '' . 
Another less ambiguous case read as follows : `` The bearer of this letter has served me for two years to his complete satisfaction . 
If you are thinking of giving him a berth , be sure to make it a wide one '' . 
In the comedy of indefinite reference , it-wit occupies a prominent place because of its frequent occurrence . 
Ambiguity arises when the pronoun it carries a twofold reference . 
Two friends were talking . 
One said , `` When I get a cold I buy a bottle of whiskey for it , and within a few hours it's gone '' . 
The speaker referred to the whiskey but his friend thought he meant the cold . 
It-wit is a misnomer because it covers slips as well as wit . 
An excited woman was making an emergency call over the phone : `` Doctor , please come over right away . 
My husband is in great pain . 
I called the other afternoon on my old friend , Graves Moreland , the Anglo-American literary critic -- his mother was born in Ohio -- who lives alone in a fairy-tale cottage on the Upson Downs , raising hell and peacocks , the former only when the venerable gentleman becomes an angry old man about the state of literature or something else that is dwindling and diminishing , such as human stature , hope , and humor . 
My unscientific friend does not believe that human stature is measurable in terms of speed , momentum , weightlessness , or distance from earth , but is a matter of the development of the human mind . 
After Gagarin became the Greatest Man in the World , for a nation that does not believe in the cult of personality or in careerism , Moreland wrote me a letter in which he said : `` I am not interested in how long a bee can live in a vacuum , or how far it can fly . 
A bee's place is in the hive '' . 
`` I have come to talk with you about the future of humor and comedy '' , I told him , at which he started slightly , and then made us each a stiff drink , with a trembling hand . 
`` I seem to remember '' , he said , `` that in an interview ten years ago you gave humor and comedy five years to live . 
Did you go to their funeral '' ? 
`` I was wrong '' , I admitted . 
`` Comedy didn't die , it just went crazy . 
It has identified itself with the very tension and terror it once did so much to alleviate . 
We now have not only what has been called over here the comedy of menace but we also have horror jokes , magazines known as Horror Comics , and sick comedians . 
There are even publications called Sick and Mad . 
The Zeitgeist is not crazy as a loon or mad as a March hare ; ; it is manic as a man '' . 
`` I woke up this morning '' , Moreland said , `` paraphrasing Lewis Carroll . 
Do you want to hear the paraphrase '' ? 
`` Can I bear it '' ? 
I asked , taking a final gulp of my drink , and handing him the empty glass . 
`` Just barely '' , he said , and repeated his paraphrase : `` The time has come '' , the walrus said , `` To speak of manic things , Of shots and shouts , and sealing dooms Of commoners and kings '' . 
Moreland fixed us each another drink , and said , `` For God's sake , tell me something truly amusing '' . 
`` I'll try '' , I said , and sat for a moment thinking . 
`` Oh yes , the other day I reread some of Emerson's English Traits , and there was an anecdote about a group of English and Americans visiting Germany , more than a hundred years ago . 
In the railway station at Berlin , a uniformed attendant was chanting , ' Foreigners this way ! 
Foreigners this way ' ! 
One woman -- she could have been either English or American -- went up to him and said , ' But you are the foreigners ' '' . 
I took a deep breath and an even deeper swallow of my drink , and said , `` I admit that going back to Ralph Waldo Emerson for humor is like going to a modern musical comedy for music and comedy '' . 
`` What's the matter with the music '' ? 
Moreland asked . 
`` It doesn't drown out the dialogue '' , I explained . 
`` Let's talk about books '' , Moreland said . 
`` I am told that in America you have non-books by non-writers , brought out by non-publishers for non-readers . 
Is it all non-fiction '' ? 
`` There is non-fiction and non non-fiction '' , I said . 
`` Speaking of nonism : the other day , in a story about a sit-down demonstration , the Paris Herald Tribune wrote , ' The non-violence became noisier . 
And then Eichmann was quoted as saying , in non-English , that Hitler's plan to exterminate the Jews was nonsense '' . 
`` If we cannot tell evil , horror , and insanity from nonsense , what is the future of humor and comedy '' ? 
Moreland asked , grimly . 
`` Cryptic '' , I said . 
`` They require , for existence , a brave spirit and a high heart , and where do you find these ? 
In our present era of Science and Angst , the heart has been downgraded , to use one of our popular retrogressive verbs '' . 
`` I know what you mean '' , Moreland sighed . 
`` Last year your Tennessee Williams told our Dilys Powell , in a television program , that it is the task of the playwright to throw light into the dark corners of the human heart . 
Like almost everybody else , he confused the heart , both as organ and as symbol , with the disturbed psyche , the deranged glands , and the jumpy central nervous system . 
I'm not pleading for the heart that leaps up when it beholds a rainbow in the sky , or for the heart that with rapture fills and dances with the daffodils . 
The sentimental pure heart of Galahad is gone with the knightly years , but I still believe in the heart of the George Meredith character that was not made of the stuff that breaks '' . 
`` We no longer have Tom Moore's and Longfellow's ' heart for any fate ' , either '' , I said . 
`` Moore and Longfellow didn't have the fate that faces us '' , Moreland said . 
`` One day our species promises co-existence , and the next day it threatens co-extinction '' . 
We sat for a while drinking in silence . 
`` The heart '' , I said finally , `` is now either in the throat or the mouth or the stomach or the shoes . 
When it was worn in the breast , or even on the sleeve , we at least knew where it was '' . 
There was a long silence . 
`` You have visited England five times in the past quarter-century , I believe '' , my host said . 
`` What has impressed you most on your present visit '' ? 
`` I would say depressed , not impressed '' , I told him . 
`` I should say it is the turning of courts of law into veritable theatres for sex dramas , involving clergymen and parishioners , psychiatrists and patients . 
It is becoming harder and harder to tell law courts and political arenas from the modern theatre '' . 
`` Do you think we need a new Henry James to re-explore the Anglo-American scene '' ? 
He asked . 
`` Or perhaps a new Noel Coward '' ? 
`` But you must have heard it said that the drawing-room disappeared forever with the somnolent years of James and the antic heyday of Coward . 
I myself hear it said constantly -- in drawing-rooms . 
In them , there is usually a group of Anglo-Americans with tragicomic problems , worthy of being explored either in the novel or in the play or in comedy and satire '' . 
I stood up and began pacing . 
`` If you are trying to get us out of the brothel , the dustbin , the kitchen sink , and the tawdry living-room , you are probably wasting your time '' , Moreland told me . 
`` Too many of our writers seem to be interested only in creatures that crawl out of the woodwork or from under the rock '' . 
`` Furiouser and furiouser '' , I said . 
`` I am worried about the current meanings of the word funny . 
It now means ominous , as when one speaks of a funny sound in the motor ; ; disturbing , as when one says that a friend is acting funny ; ; and frightening , as when a wife tells the police that it is funny , but her husband hasn't been home for two days and nights '' . 
Moreland sat brooding for a full minute , during which I made each of us a new drink . 
He took his glass , clinked it against mine , and said , `` Toujours gai , what the hell '' ! 
Borrowing a line from Don Marquis' Mehitabel . 
`` Be careful of the word ' gay ' , for it , too , has undergone a change . 
It now means , in my country , homosexual '' , I said . 
`` Oh , I forgot to say that if one is taken to the funny house in the funny wagon , he is removed to a mental institution in an ambulance . 
Recently , by the way , I received a questionnaire in which I was asked whether or not I was non-institutionalized '' . 
My host went over and stared out the window at his peacocks ; ; then he turned to me . 
`` Is it true that you believe the other animals are saner than the human species '' ? 
`` Oh , that is demonstrable '' , I told him . 
`` Do you remember the woman in the French Alps who was all alone with her sheep one day when the sun darkened ominously ? 
She told the sheep , ' The world is coming to an end ' ! 
And the sheep said -- all in unison , I have no doubt -- ba-a-a ! 
The sound mockery of sheep is like the salubrious horse laugh '' . 
`` That is only partly non-nonsense '' , he began . 
`` If you saw the drama called Rhinoceros '' , I said , `` think of the effect it would have on an audience of rhinos when the actor on stage suddenly begins turning into a rhinoceros . 
The rhinos would panic , screaming help ! 
-- if that can be screamed in their language '' . 
`` You think the Russians are getting ahead of us in comedy '' ? 
Moreland demanded . 
`` Non-God , no '' , I said . 
`` The political and intellectual Left began fighting humor and comedy years ago , because they fear things they do not understand and cannot manage , such as satire and irony , such as humor and comedy . 
Nevertheless , like any other human being upon whom the spotlight of the world plays continually , Khrushchev , the anti-personality cultist , has become a comic actor , or thinks he has . 
In his famous meeting with Nixon a couple of years ago he seemed to believe that he was as funny as Ed Wynn . 
But , like Caesar , he has only one joke , so far as I can find out . 
It consists in saying , ' That would be sending the goat to look after the cabbage . 
Why in the name of his non-God doesn't he vary it a bit '' ? 
`` Such as '' ? 
Moreland asked . 
`` Such as ' sending the cat to guard the mice ' , or ' the falcon to protect the dove ' , or most terribly sharp of all , ' the human being to save humanity ' '' . 
`` You and I have fallen out of literature into politics '' , Moreland observed . 
`` What a nasty fall was there '' ! 
I said . 
Moreland went over to stare at his peacocks again , and then came back and sat down , restively . 
`` The world that was once foot-loose and fancy-free '' , he said , `` has now become screw-loose and frenzy-free . 
In our age of Science and Angst it seems to me more brave to stay on Earth and explore inner man than to fly far from the sphere of our sorrow and explore outer space '' . 
`` The human ego being what it is '' , I put in , `` science fiction has always assumed that the creatures on the planets of a thousand larger solar systems than ours must look like gigantic tube-nosed fruit bats . 
It seems to me that the first human being to reach one of these planets may well learn what it is to be a truly great and noble species '' . 
`` Now we are leaving humor and comedy behind again '' , Moreland protested . 
`` Not in the largest sense of the words '' , I said . 
`` The other day Arnold Toynbee spoke against the inveterate tendency of our species to believe in the uniqueness of its religions , its ideologies , and its virtually everything else . 
Why do we not realize that no ideology believes so much in itself as it disbelieves in something else ? 
Forty years ago an English writer , W. L. George , dealt with this subject in Eddies of the Day , and said , as an example , that ' Saint George for Merry England ' would not start a spirit half so quickly as ' Strike frog-eating Frenchmen dead ' '' ! 
`` There was also Gott strafe Angleterre '' , Moreland reminded me , `` and Carthago delenda est , or if you will , Deus strafe Carthage . 
It isn't what the ideologist believes in , but what he hates , that puts the world in jeopardy . 
This is the force , in our time and in every other time , that urges the paranoiac and the manic-depressive to become head of a state . 
Complete power not only corrupts but it also attracts the mad . 
There is a bitter satire for a future writer in that '' . 
`` Great satire has always been clearly written and readily understandable '' , I said . 
`` But we now find writers obsessed by the nooks and crannies of their ivory towers , and curiously devoted to the growing obscurity and complexity of poetry and non-poetry . 
I wrote a few years ago that one of the cardinal rules of writing is that the reader should be able to get some idea of what the story is about . 
One day , the children had wanted to get up onto General Burnside's horse . 
They wanted to see what his back felt like -- the General's . 
He looked so comfortable being straight . 
They wanted to touch the mystery . 
Arlene was boosting them up when the policeman came by . 
He was very rude . 
Arlene had a hard voice , too , this time . 
The policeman's eyes rather popped for a second ; ; but then Arlene got another tone in a hurry , and she said , `` If it wasn't for these dear children '' -- . 
The policeman got a confused , funny look on his face , and he had answered kind of politely , `` Now , look here , lady : I know you got to entertain these kids and all . 
But this is a public park and it's a city ordinance that the statues cannot be crawled on '' . 
Arlene was so ashamed that she hung her head when she said , `` Yes , sir '' . 
The policeman walked on , but he looked back once . 
That had happened on the day when two other unusual things had occurred . 
Arlene had taught them a new way to have fun in their little private area ; ; and they had told their mother about the tumbles . 
In matters of exact information , that kept her one step behind developments ; ; and so they were consistently true to their principles . 
`` Never mind '' , Arlene had said , after the policeman had left , having pursued the usual unco-operative course of grownups . 
`` Never mind . 
I know something that is much more fun that we can do on our little lawn '' . 
`` What is it '' ? 
Asked the children , whose reflexes and replies were invariably so admirably normal and predictable . 
Maybe that was why they were cordial and loyal towards the unpredictability of Arlene . 
`` Just you wait '' , advised Arlene , echoing the dialogue in a recent British movie . 
And when they had got to their little lawn , they had had a most twirlingly magnificent time . 
First , Arlene had put them through some rapid somersaults . 
They had protested that that wasn't any surprise . 
`` Just you wait '' , said Arlene again , as though she were discovering the pleasantly tingling insinuations of that handy little sturdy statement . 
`` This is a warm-up '' . 
`` Is it anything like cooked-over oatmeal '' ? 
Asked one of the children . 
`` Not the least bit '' , Arlene snapped . 
One of the many things that was so nice about her was that she always took your questions seriously , particularly your very , very serious questions . 
Those were especially the ones that all other grownups laughed at loudest . 
She would sometimes even get a little hard on you , she took you so seriously . 
But not hard for very long . 
Just long enough to make you feel important . 
`` Now '' , said Arlene , eventually , making them both sit in formation on a big root of a live oak , the sort of root that divided itself and made their bottoms sag down and feel comfortable . 
`` Now , we're going to be like what General Burnside and his horse make us think of '' . 
The children looked at each other and sagged their bottoms down even more comfortably than ever . 
Their curiosity went happily out of bounds . 
Then , Arlene threw herself backwards and wiggled in a way that was just wonderful . 
She held herself that way and turned her head towards them and laughed and winked . 
`` Imagine being able to laugh and wink when you're like the top part of that picture frame at home '' , one of them said . 
They both laughed and winked back . 
`` I'm General Burnside's horse , upside down '' , Arlene said , sort of gaspingly , for her : even she had to breathe kind of funny when she was in that position . 
She made General Burnside's horse's belly do so funny when it was upside down . 
Then , she was back on her feet , winking and smiling that enormous smile ( she had lots of wonderful big teeth that you never would have suspected she had when she was not smiling ) . 
And she would wink and throw kisses . 
They both tried to keep smiling and winking for a long time , but it made their lips and eyelids tremble . 
But they kept on clapping for a long , long time . 
`` This time '' , Arlene said , and she even kept on wiggling a little bit while she was just talking , `` you're going to tell me what I am and what I'm doing . 
It all has something to do with General Burnside and his horse '' . 
This time , it was so grand ; ; they could tell exactly what it was . 
It was General Burnside's horse running in a circle . 
His legs shook , and the shaking went right on up his body through his hips to his shoulders . 
`` That's the General's horse '' , one of them cried out . 
The other remarked , in a happy laughter , `` That's a funny old horse '' . 
The first one said , `` He sure does shake . 
He's old '' . 
Then there was the General kissing his wife . 
They had to be told that one . 
But it was even funnier after they had been told . 
Their father , when he came back from those many business trips , just bumped their mother on the forehead with his lips and asked if anybody had thought to mix the martinis and put them in the electric icebox . 
But not General Burnside . 
He was the funniest man . 
He never could keep still , even when he didn't move his feet . 
Then , they had to get up and be General Burnside . 
Or his horse . 
All they could think of was to run around in circles , kicking their legs out . 
It wasn't very funny . 
Then , they said General Burnside was going to jump over his horse's head ; ; and they did some somersaults . 
But that wasn't very funny , either . 
`` You ought to shake '' , Arlene advised them . 
And Arlene showed them how to begin . 
She also taught them to sing `` I wish I could shimmy like my sister Kate '' . 
That helped a lot . 
They were clumsy , but they were beginning to catch on . 
They also caught on a little bit on how to smile a lot without your lips trembling . 
`` Imagine you won't get your allowance if you're caught not smiling -- or smiling with your lips trembling too much '' , Arlene suggested . 
That helped a great deal . 
They were a little late in getting home . 
`` I'm sorry , Mrs. Minks '' , Arlene said in a tone so low you could hardly hear it . 
My mother constituted herself the voice of all of us . 
`` It's perfectly understandable , Arlene '' , my mother said in a friendly way . 
`` I suppose you all were playing and forgot '' ? 
`` Yes , ma'am '' , the children chorused heartily . 
We couldn't help laughing . 
The children rushed off to get rid of their sweaters ; ; and Arlene began tapping the kitchen door open . 
`` Arlene's a good girl '' , my uncle remarked to us ; ; but he said it too soon , for it came out just before the tap to which the door responded . 
That tap had a slight bangish quality . 
`` She really is a dear little thing '' , my mother agreed . 
Her upper lip lifted slightly . 
She was biting into a small red radish ; ; and that action always caused her to lift her lip from the sting of the thing . 
Also , she lived in continual fear of finding a white worm curled up in a neat , mean little heap at the white center of the radish . 
She would try to see over the bulge of her cheeks and somewhat under her teeth to the place where she was biting . 
It never worked , naturally ; ; but it made her look unusual . 
Also , when she had bitten off half of the small radish , she found the suspense unbearable ; ; and she would snatch the finger-held half of the radish out to where she could inspect it . 
One could hear a very faint , ladylike sigh of relief . 
Actually , it was inaudible to anyone not expecting it . 
But the warm joy of her brown eyes was open to the general public . 
Later on , the children told her further about somersaulting . 
`` It must be awfully good for them . 
And awfully kind of Arlene '' , she told us later . 
`` But do you know something curious '' ? 
She added . 
`` I reached into that funny little pocket that is high up on my dress . 
I have no notion why I reached . 
And I found a radish . 
Was it an omen ? 
I thought for a second . 
But I would not pamper myself in that silly way . 
I opened the window and threw the radish out '' . 
Then , my mother blushed at this small lie ; ; for she knew and we knew that it was cowardice that had made one more radish that night just too impossible a strain . 
Arlene became indispensable ; ; nobody could have told why . 
But she was . 
It was in the air . 
A friend of my father's came to dinner . 
He was passing through town and phoned to say hello . 
As a result , he was persuaded out to dinner . 
As a matter of fact , this happened every four or five months . 
Sometimes , he coincided with my father's being at home . 
Sometimes , as at this juncture , he did not . 
But he was always persuaded out . 
He liked children , in a loathsome kind of way ; ; the two youngest in our family always had to be brought in and put through tricks for his entertainment . 
When he had left , I could never remember whether he had poked them in their middles , laughingly , with a thick index finger or whether he was merely so much the sort of person who did this that one assumed the action , not bothering to look . 
The children loathed him , too . 
This evening , they were pushed in from the breakfast room , with odds and ends of dessert distributed over them . 
There had been some coconut in it , for I remember my mother's taking a quick glance at a stringy bit of this nut on the cheek of one of them and then putting down her radish with a shiver . 
They were pushed gently into the room by Arlene -- whose only part appearing were hands that crept quickly back around to the kitchen side of the door . 
We had just sat down . 
`` Tell Mr. Gorboduc what you're doing these days '' , my mother advised the children , ceremonially . 
There was an air of revolt about the children -- even irreverence for their own principles . 
This could be told chiefly from a sort of head-tossing and prancing , a horselike balkiness of demeanor . 
Possibly , the coconut-containing dessert had brought up bitter problems of administration . 
But , at the beginning , this stayed just in the air . 
`` We go to the park with this nice lady '' , one of them said . 
`` We have good times '' . 
This happy bulletin convulsed Mr. Gorboduc . 
`` You do '' ? 
He asked , between wheezes of laughter . 
He was forced to wipe his eyes . 
`` You don't step on the flowers , do you ? 
Eh '' ? 
One of the children maneuvered out of range of the poking index finger . 
`` No '' , he said . 
`` We don't '' . 
Mr. Gorboduc took a swig of his sherry . 
He was so long thinking that my mother had time to inspect her sherry for dregs . 
Usually , this was done when attention was diverted by someone else's long , boring story . 
But this time she was nervous : she was open . 
Mr. Gorboduc was finally in command of his mind again . 
`` Tell me -- what do you do at the park '' ? 
He asked . 
This was delivered in a forthright way , without coyness and over-pretended interest -- an admirable way with children . 
Only , unfortunately , he could not remove from his voice a nagging insinuation of the direct command . 
This nettled the children into the revelation of exact truth , a sacrifice of their secret superiority over grown people , but a victory in the wide fields of perpetration and illegitimate accomplishment . 
`` We bump '' , one said ; ; and the other went on to development of the idea . 
`` We grind , too '' , he said . 
My mother was beside herself with curiosity . 
`` Say that again '' , she pleaded . 
She laughed a little and tossed the dregs rakishly around in her glass . 
`` You what '' ? 
She could see that Mr. Gorboduc was intrigued ; ; the hostess in her took over . 
She was rollickingly happy . 
`` You what '' ? 
My uncle looked at Mr. Gorboduc . 
He read Henry James and used to pretend profundity through eye-beamings at people . 
Mr. Gorboduc looked down . 
He would not look up . 
He was very funny about the whole thing . 
Pueri aquam de silvas ad agricolas portant , a delightful vignette set in the unforgettable epoch of pre-Punic War Rome . 
Marcellus , the hero , is beset from all sides by the problems of approaching manhood . 
The story opens on the eve of his fifty-third birthday , as he prepares for the two weeks of festivities that are to follow . 
Suddenly , a messenger arrives and , just before collapsing dead at his feet , informs him that the Saracens have invaded Silesia , the home province of his affianced . 
He at once cancels the celebrations and , buckling on his scimitar , stumbles blindly from the house , where he is hit and killed by a passing oxcart . 
The Albany Civic Opera's presentation of Spumoni's immortal Il Sevigli del Spegititgninino , with guest contralto Hattie Sforzt . 
An unusual , if not extraordinary , rendering of the classic myth that involves the rescue of Prometheus from the rock by the U.S. Cavalry was given last week in the warehouse of the Albany Leather Conduit Company amid cheers of `` Hubba hubba '' and `` Yalagaloo pip pip '' ! 
After a `` busy '' overture , the curtain rises on a farm scene -- the Ranavan Valley in northern Maine . 
A dead armadillo , the sole occupant of the stage , symbolizes the crisis and destruction of the Old Order . 
Old Order , acted and atonally sung by Grunnfeu Arapacis , the lovely Serbantian import , then entered and delivered the well-known invocation to the god Phineoppus , whereupon the stage is quite unexpectedly visited by a company of wandering Gorshek priests , symbolizing Love , Lust , Prudence and General Motors , respectively . 
According to the myth , Old Order then vanishes at stage left and reappears at extreme stage right , but Director Shuz skillfully sidesteps the rather gooshey problem of stage effects by simply having Miss Arapacis walk across the stage . 
The night he saw it , a rather unpleasant situation arose when the soloist refused to approach the armadillo , complaining -- in ad-lib -- that `` it smelled '' . 
We caught the early train to New York . 
The Dharma Dictionary , a list of highly unusual terms used in connection with Eurasian proto-senility cults . 
It's somewhat off the beaten track , to be sure , but therein lies its variety and charm . 
For example , probably very few people know that the word `` visrhanik '' that is bantered about so much today stems from the verb `` bouanahsha '' : to salivate . 
Likewise , and equally fascinating , is the news that such unlikely synonyms as `` pratakku '' , `` sweathruna '' , and the tongue-twister `` nnuolapertar-it-vuh-karti-birifw- '' all originated in the same village in Bathar-on-Walli Province and are all used to express sentiments concerning British `` imperialism '' . 
The terms are fairly safe to use on this side of the ocean , but before you start spouting them to your date , it might be best to find out if he was a member of Major Pockmanster's Delhi Regiment , since resentment toward the natives was reportedly very high in that outfit . 
The breeze and chancellor Neitzbohr , a movie melodrama that concerns the attempts of a West German politician to woo a plaster cast of the Apollo Belvedere . 
As you have doubtless guessed already , the plot is plastered with Freudian , Jungian , and Meinckian theory . 
For example , when the film is only four minutes old , Neitzbohr refers to a small , Victorian piano stool as `` Wilhelmina '' , and we are thereupon subjected to a flashback that informs us that this very piano stool was once used by an epileptic governess whose name , of course , was Doris ( the English equivalent , when passed through middle-Gaelic derivations , of Wilhelmina ) . 
For the remainder of the movie , Chancellor Neitzbohr proceeds to lash the piano stool with a slat from a Venetian blind that used to hang in the pre-war Reichstag . 
In this manner , he seeks to expunge from his own soul the guilt pangs caused by his personal assaults against the English at Dunkirk . 
As we find out at the end , it is not the stool ( symbolizing Doris , therefore the English ) that he is punishing but the piece of Venetian blind . 
And , when the slat finally shatters , we see him count the fragments , all the while muttering , `` He loves me , he loves me not '' . 
After a few tortuous moments of wondering who `` he '' is , the camera pans across the room to the plaster statue , and we realize that Neitzbohr is trying to redeem himself in the eyes of a mute piece of sculpture . 
The effect , needless to say , is almost terrifying , and though at times a bit obscure , the film is certainly a much-needed catharsis for the `` repressed '' movie-goer . 
The music of Bini SalFininistas , capital LP Ab63711-r , one of the rare recordings of this titanic , yet unsung , composer . 
Those persons who were lucky enough to see and hear the performance of his work at the Brest-Silevniov Festival in August , 1916 , will certainly welcome his return to public notice ; ; and it is not unlikely that , even as the great Bach lay dormant for so many years , so has the erudite , ingenious SalFininistas passed through his `` purgatory '' of neglect . 
But now , under the guidance of the contemporary composer Marc Schlek , Jr. , a major revival is under way . 
As he leads the Neurenschatz Skolkau Orchestra , Schlek gives a tremendously inspired performance of both the Baslot and Rattzhenfuut concertos , including the controversial Tschilwyk cadenza , which was included at the conductor's insistence . 
A major portion of the credit should also go to flautist Haumd for his rendering of the almost impossible `` Indianapolis '' movement in the Baslot . 
Not only was Haumd's intonation and phrasing without flaw , but he seemed to take every tonal eccentricity in stride . 
For example , to move ( as the score requires ) from the lowest F-major register up to a barely audible N minor in four seconds , not skipping , at the same time , even one of the 407 fingerings , seems a feat too absurd to consider , and it is to the flautist's credit that he remained silent throughout the passage . 
We would have preferred , however , to have had the rest of the orchestra refrain from laughing at this and other spots on the recording , since it mars an otherwise sober , if not lofty , performance . 
As Broadway itself becomes increasingly weighted down by trite , heavy-handed , commercially successful musicals and inspirational problem dramas , the American theatre is going through an inexorable renaissance in that nebulous area known as `` off-Broadway '' . 
For the last two years , this frontier of the arts has produced a number of so-called `` non-dramas '' which have left indelible , bittersweet impressions on the psyche of this veteran theatregoer . 
The latest and , significantly , greatest fruit of this theatrical vine is The , an adaptation of Basho's classic frog-haiku by Roger Entwhistle , a former University of Maryland chemistry instructor . 
Although the play does show a certain structural amateurishness ( there are eleven acts varying in length from twenty-five seconds to an hour and a half ) , the statement it makes concerning the ceaseless yearning and searching of youth is profound and worthy of our attention . 
The action centers about a group of outspoken and offbeat students sitting around a table in a cafeteria and their collective and ultimately fruitless search for a cup of hot coffee . 
They are relentlessly rebuffed on all sides by a waitress , the police , and an intruding government tutor . 
The innocence that they tried to conceal at the beginning is clearly destroyed forever when one of them , asking for a piece of lemon-meringue pie , gets a plate of English muffins instead . 
Leaving the theatre after the performance , I had a flash of intuition that life , after all ( as Rilke said ) , is just a search for the nonexistent cup of hot coffee , and that this unpretentious , moving , clever , bitter slice of life was the greatest thing to happen to the American theatre since Brooks Atkinson retired . 
Aging but still precocious , French feline enfant terrible Francoisette Lagoon has succeeded in shocking jaded old Paris again , this time with a sexy ballet scenario called The Lascivious Interlude , the story of a nymphomaniac trip-hammer operator who falls hopelessly in love with a middle-aged steam shovel . 
A biting , pithy parable of the all-pervading hollowness of modern life , the piece has been set by Mlle Lagoon to a sumptuous score ( a single motif played over and over by four thousand French horns ) by existentialist hot-shot Jean-Paul Sartre . 
Petite , lovely Yvette Chadroe plays the nymphomaniac engagingly . 
Ever since Bambi , and , more recently , Born Free , there have been a lot of books about animals , but few compare with Max Fink's wry , understated , charming , and immensely readable My Friend , the Quizzical Salamander . 
Done in the modern style of a `` confession '' , Fink tells in exquisite detail how he came to know , and , more important , love his mother's pet salamander , Alicia . 
It is not an entirely happy book , as Mrs. Fink soon becomes jealous of Alicia and , in retaliation , refuses to continue to scrape the algae off her glass . 
Max , in a fit of despair , takes Alicia and runs off for two marvelous weeks in Burbank ( Fink calls it `` the most wonderful and lovely fourteen days in my whole life '' ) , at the end of which Alicia tragically contracts Parkinson's disease and dies . 
This brief resume hardly does the book justice , but I heartily recommend it to all those who are engages with the major problems of our time . 
Opera in the Grand Tradition , along with mah-jongg , seems to be staging a well-deserved comeback . 
In this country , the two guiding lights are , without doubt , Felix Fing and Anna Pulova . 
Fing , a lean , chiseled , impeccable gentleman of the old school who was once mistaken on the street for Sir Cedric Hardwicke , is responsible for the rediscovery of Verdi's earliest , most raucous opera , Nabisco , a sumptuous bout-de-souffle with a haunting leitmotiv that struck me as being highly reminiscent of the Mudugno version of `` Volare '' . 
Miss Pulova has a voice that Maria Callas once described as `` like chipping teeth with a screw driver '' , and her round , opalescent face becomes fascinatingly reflective of the emotions demanded by the role of Rosalie . 
The Champs Elysees is literally littered this summer with the prostrate bodies of France's beat-up beatnik jeunes filles . 
Cause of all this commotion : squat , pug-nosed , balding , hopelessly ugly Jean-Pierre Bravado , a Bogartian figure , who plays a sadistic , amoral , philosophic Tasti-Freeze salesman in old New-Waver Fredrico de Mille Rossilini's endlessly provocative film , A Sour Sponge . 
Bravado has been alternately described as `` a symbol of the new grandeur of France and myself '' ( De Gaulle ) and `` a decadent , disgusting slob '' ! 
( Norman Mailer ) , but no one can deny that the screen crackles with electricity whenever he is on it . 
Soaring to stardom along with him , Margo Felicity Brighetti , a luscious and curvaceously beguiling Italian starlet , turns in a creditable performance as an airplane mechanic . 
The battle of the drib-drool continues , but most of New York's knowing sophisticates of Abstract Expressionism are stamping their feet impatiently in expectation of V ( for Vindication ) Day , September first , when Augustus Quasimodo's first one-man show opens at the Guggenheim . 
We have heard that after seeing Mr. Quasimodo's work it will be virtually impossible to deny the artistic validity and importance of the whole abstract movement . 
And it is thought by many who think about such things that Quasimodo is the logical culmination of a school that started with Monet , progressed through Kandinsky and the cubist Picasso , and blossomed just recently in Pollock and De Kooning . 
Quasimodo defines his own art as `` the search for what is not there '' . 
`` I paint the nothing '' , he said once to Franz Kline and myself , `` the nothing that is behind the something , the inexpressible , unpaintable ' tick ' in the unconscious , the ' spirit ' of the moment resting forever , suspended like a huge balloon , in non-time '' . 
It is his relentlessness and unwaivering adherence to this revolutionary artistic philosophy that has enabled him to paint such pictures as `` The Invasion of Cuba '' . 
In this work , his use of non-color is startling and skillful . 
The sweep of space , the delicate counterbalance of the white masses , the over-all completeness and unity , the originality and imagination , all entitle it to be called an authentic masterpiece . 
I asked Quasimodo recently how he accomplished this , and he replied that he had painted his model `` a beautiful shade of red and then had her breathe on the canvas '' , which was his typical tongue-in-cheek way of chiding me for my lack of sensitivity . 
Dear Sirs : Let me begin by clearing up any possible misconception in your minds , wherever you are . 
The collective by which I address you in the title above is neither patronizing nor jocose but an exact industrial term in use among professional thieves . 
It is , I am reliably given to understand , the technical argot for those who engage in your particular branch of the boost ; ; i.e. , burglars who rob while the tenants are absent , in contrast to hot-slough prowlers , those who work while the occupants are home . 
Since the latter obviously require an audacity you do not possess , you may perhaps suppose that I am taunting you as socially inferior . 
Far from it ; ; I merely draw an etymological distinction , hoping that specialists and busy people like you will welcome such precision in a layman . 
Above all , disabuse yourselves of any thought that I propose to vent moral indignation at your rifling my residence , to whimper over the loss of a few objets d'art , or to shame you into rectitude . 
My object , rather , is to alert you to an aspect or two of the affair that could have the gravest implications for you , far beyond the legal sanctions society might inflict . 
You have unwittingly set in motion forces so malign , so vindictive , that it would be downright inhumane of me not to warn you about them . 
Quite candidly , fellows , I wouldn't be in your shoes for all the rice in China . 
As you've doubtless forgotten the circumstances in the press of more recent depredations , permit me to recapitulate them briefly . 
Sometime on Saturday evening , August 22nd , while my family and I were dining at the Hostaria dell' Orso , in Rome , you jimmied a window of our home in Bucks County , Pennsylvania , and let yourselves into the premises . 
Hastening to the attic , the temperature of which was easily hotter than the Gold Coast , you proceeded to mask the windows with a fancy wool coverlet , some khaki pants , and the like , and to ransack the innumerable boxes and barrels stored there . 
What you were looking for ( unless you make a hobby of collecting old tennis rackets and fly screens ) eludes me , but to judge from phonograph records scattered about a fumed-oak Victrola . 
You danced two tangos and a paso doble , which must have been fairly enervating in that milieu . 
You then descended one story , glommed a television set from the music room -- the only constructive feature of your visit , by the way -- and , returning to the ground floor , entered the master bedroom . 
From the curio cabinet on its south wall and the bureaus beneath , you abstracted seventeen ivory , metal , wood , and stone sculptures of Oriental and African origin , two snuffboxes , and a jade-handled magnifying glass . 
Rummaging through a stack of drawers nearby , you unearthed an antique French chess set in ivory and sandalwood , which , along with two box Kodaks , you added to your haul . 
Then , having wrapped the lot in an afghan my dog customarily slept on , you lammed out the front door , considerately leaving it open for neighbors to discover . 
So much for the tiresome facts , as familiar to you , I'm sure , as to the constables and state troopers who followed in your wake . 
The foregoing , aided by several clues I'll withhold to keep you on your toes , will pursue you with a tenacity worthy of Inspector Javert , but before they close in , gird yourselves , I repeat , for a vengeance infinitely more pitiless . 
Fourteen of the sculptures you took possess properties of a most curious and terrifying nature , as you will observe when your limbs begin to wither and your hair falls out in patches . 
In time , these minor manifestations will multiply and effloresce , riddling you with frambesia , the king's evil , sheep rot , and clonic spasm , until your very existence becomes a burden and you cry out for release . 
All this , though , is simply a prelude , a curtain-raiser , for what ensues , and I doubt whether any Occidental could accurately forecast it . 
If , however , it would help to intensify your anguish , I can delimit the powers of a few of the divinities you've affronted and describe the punishment they meted out in one analogous instance . 
Hold on tight . 
First of all , the six figures of the Buddha you heisted -- four Siamese heads , a black obsidian statuette in the earth-touching position , and a large brass figure of the Dying Buddha on a teakwood base . 
Now , you probably share the widespread Western belief that the Lord Buddha is the most compassionate of the gods , much more so than Jehovah and Allah and the rest . 
'fess up -- don't you ? 
Well , ordinarily he is , except ( as the Wheel of the Law specifies ) toward impious folk who steal , disturb , or maltreat the Presence . 
Very peculiar retribution indeed seems to overtake such jokers . 
Eight or ten years ago , a couple of French hoods stole a priceless Khmer head from the Musee Guimet , in Paris , and a week later crawled into the Salpetriere with unmistakable symptoms of leprosy . 
Hell's own amount of chaulmoogra oil did nothing to alleviate their torment ; ; they expired amid indescribable fantods , imploring the Blessed One to forgive their desecration . 
Any reputable French interne can supply you with a dozen similar instances , and I'll presently recount a case out of my own personal experience , but , for the moment , let's resume our catalogue . 
Whether the pair of Sudanese ivory carvings you lifted really possess the juju to turn your livers to lead , as a dealer in Khartoum assured me , I am not competent to say . 
Likewise the ivory Chinese female figure known as a `` doctor lady '' ( provenance Honan ) ; ; a friend of mine removing her from the curio cabinet for inspection was felled as if by a hammer , but he had previously drunk a quantity of applejack . 
The three Indian brass deities , though -- Ganessa , Siva , and Krishna -- are an altogether different cup of tea . 
They hail from Travancore , a state in the subcontinent where Kali , the goddess of death , is worshiped . 
Have you ever heard of Thuggee ? 
Nuf sed . 
But it is the wooden sculpture from Bali , the one representing two men with their heads bent backward and their bodies interlaced by a fish , that I particularly call to your attention . 
Oddly enough , this is an amulet against housebreakers , presented to the mem and me by a local rajah in 1949 . 
Inscribed around its base is a charm in Balinese , a dialect I take it you don't comprehend . 
Neither do I , but the Tjokorda Agoeng was good enough to translate , and I'll do as much for you . 
Whosoever violates our rooftree , the legend states , can expect maximal sorrow . 
The teeth will rain from his mouth like pebbles , his wife will make him cocu with fishmongers , and a trolley car will grow in his stomach . 
Furthermore -- and this , to me , strikes an especially warming note -- it shall avail the vandals naught to throw away or dispose of their loot . 
The cycle of disaster starts the moment they touch any belonging of ours , and dogs them unto the forty-fifth generation . 
Sort of remorseless , isn't it ? 
Still , there it is . 
Now , you no doubt regard the preceding as pap ; ; you're tooling around full of gage in your hot rods , gorging yourselves on pizza and playing pinball in the taverns and generally behaving like Ubermenschen . 
In that case , listen to what befell another wisenheimer who tangled with our joss . 
A couple of years back , I occupied a Village apartment whose outer staircase contained the type of niche called a `` coffin turn '' . 
In it was a stone Tibetan Buddha I had picked up in Bombay , and occasionally , to make merit , my wife and I garlanded it with flowers or laid a few pennies in its lap . 
After a while , we became aware that the money was disappearing as fast as we replenished it . 
Our suspicions eventually centered , by the process of elimination , on a grocer's boy , a thoroughly bad hat , who delivered cartons to the people overhead . 
The more I probed into this young man's activities and character , the less savory I found him . 
I learned , for example , that he made a practice of yapping at dogs he encountered and , in winter , of sprinkling salt on the icy pavement to scarify their feet . 
His energy was prodigious ; ; sometimes he would be up before dawn , clad as a garbage collector and hurling pails into areaways to exasperate us , and thereafter would hurry to the Bronx Zoo to grimace at the lions and press cigar butts against their paws . 
Evenings , he was frequently to be seen at restaurants like Enrico & Paglieri's or Peter's Backyard drunkenly donning ladies' hats and singing `` O Sole Mio '' . 
In short , and to borrow an arboreal phrase , slash timber . 
Well , the odious little toad went along chivying animals and humans who couldn't retaliate , and in due course , as was inevitable , overreached himself . 
One morning , we discovered not only that the pennies were missing from the idol but that a cigarette had been stubbed out in its lap . 
`` Now he's bought it '' , said my wife contentedly . 
`` No divinity will hold still for that . 
He's really asking for it '' . 
And how right she was . 
The next time we saw him , he was a changed person ; ; he had aged thirty years , and his face , the color of tallow , was crisscrossed with wrinkles , as though it had been wrapped in chicken wire . 
Some sort of nemesis was haunting his footsteps , he told us in a quavering voice -- either an ape specter or Abe Spector , a process-server , we couldn't determine which . 
His eyes had the same dreadful rigid stare as Dr. Grimesby Roylott's when he was found before his open safe wearing the speckled band . 
The grocery the youth worked for soon tired of his depressing effect on customers , most of whom were sufficiently neurotic without the threat of incubi , and let him go . 
The beautiful , the satisfying part of his disintegration , however , was the masterly way the Buddha polished him off . 
Reduced to beggary , he at last got a job as office boy to a television producer . 
His hubris , deficiency of taste , and sadism carried him straightaway to the top . 
He evolved programs that plumbed new depths of bathos and besmirched whole networks , and quickly superseded his boss . 
Not long ago , I rode down with him in an elevator in Radio City ; ; he was talking to himself thirteen to the dozen and smoking two cigars at once , clearly a man in extremis . 
`` See that guy '' ? 
The operator asked pityingly . 
`` I wouldn't be in his shoes for all the rice in China . 
There's some kind of a nemesis haunting his footsteps '' . 
However one looks at it , therefore , I'd say that your horoscope for this autumn is the reverse of rosy . 
The inventory you acquired from me isn't going to be easy to move ; ; you can't very well sidle up to people on the street and ask if they want to buy a hot Bodhisattva . 
Additionally , since you're going to be hors de combat pretty soon with sprue , yaws , Delhi boil , the Granville wilt , liver fluke , bilharziasis , and a host of other complications of the hex you've aroused , you mustn't expect to be lionized socially . 
My advice , if you live long enough to continue your vocation , is that the next time you're attracted by the exotic , pass it up -- it's nothing but a headache . 
As you can count on me to do the same . 
Compassionately yours , S. J. Perelman revulsion in the desert the doors of the D train slid shut , and as I dropped into a seat and , exhaling , looked up across the aisle , the whole aviary in my head burst into song . 
She was a living doll and no mistake -- the blue-black bang , the wide cheekbones , olive-flushed , that betrayed the Cherokee strain in her Midwestern lineage , and the mouth whose only fault , in the novelist's carping phrase , was that the lower lip was a trifle too voluptuous . 
From what I was able to gauge in a swift , greedy glance , the figure inside the coral-colored boucle dress was stupefying . 
The Fulton County Grand Jury said Friday an investigation of Atlanta's recent primary election produced `` no evidence '' that any irregularities took place . 
The jury further said in term-end presentments that the City Executive Committee , which had over-all charge of the election , `` deserves the praise and thanks of the City of Atlanta '' for the manner in which the election was conducted . 
The September-October term jury had been charged by Fulton Superior Court Judge Durwood Pye to investigate reports of possible `` irregularities '' in the hard-fought primary which was won by Mayor-nominate Ivan Allen Jr. . 
`` Only a relative handful of such reports was received '' , the jury said , `` considering the widespread interest in the election , the number of voters and the size of this city '' . 
The jury said it did find that many of Georgia's registration and election laws `` are outmoded or inadequate and often ambiguous '' . 
It recommended that Fulton legislators act `` to have these laws studied and revised to the end of modernizing and improving them '' . 
The grand jury commented on a number of other topics , among them the Atlanta and Fulton County purchasing departments which it said `` are well operated and follow generally accepted practices which inure to the best interest of both governments '' . 
Merger proposed However , the jury said it believes `` these two offices should be combined to achieve greater efficiency and reduce the cost of administration '' . 
The City Purchasing Department , the jury said , `` is lacking in experienced clerical personnel as a result of city personnel policies '' . 
It urged that the city `` take steps to remedy '' this problem . 
Implementation of Georgia's automobile title law was also recommended by the outgoing jury . 
It urged that the next Legislature `` provide enabling funds and re-set the effective date so that an orderly implementation of the law may be effected '' . 
The grand jury took a swipe at the State Welfare Department's handling of federal funds granted for child welfare services in foster homes . 
`` This is one of the major items in the Fulton County general assistance program '' , the jury said , but the State Welfare Department `` has seen fit to distribute these funds through the welfare departments of all the counties in the state with the exception of Fulton County , which receives none of this money . 
The jurors said they realize `` a proportionate distribution of these funds might disable this program in our less populous counties '' . 
Nevertheless , `` we feel that in the future Fulton County should receive some portion of these available funds '' , the jurors said . 
`` Failure to do this will continue to place a disproportionate burden '' on Fulton taxpayers . 
The jury also commented on the Fulton ordinary's court which has been under fire for its practices in the appointment of appraisers , guardians and administrators and the awarding of fees and compensation . 
Wards protected The jury said it found the court `` has incorporated into its operating procedures the recommendations '' of two previous grand juries , the Atlanta Bar Association and an interim citizens committee . 
`` These actions should serve to protect in fact and in effect the court's wards from undue costs and its appointed and elected servants from unmeritorious criticisms '' , the jury said . 
Regarding Atlanta's new multi-million-dollar airport , the jury recommended `` that when the new management takes charge Jan. 1 the airport be operated in a manner that will eliminate political influences '' . 
The jury did not elaborate , but it added that `` there should be periodic surveillance of the pricing practices of the concessionaires for the purpose of keeping the prices reasonable '' . 
Ask jail deputies On other matters , the jury recommended that : ( 1 ) Four additional deputies be employed at the Fulton County Jail and `` a doctor , medical intern or extern be employed for night and weekend duty at the jail '' . 
( 2 ) Fulton legislators `` work with city officials to pass enabling legislation that will permit the establishment of a fair and equitable '' pension plan for city employes . 
The jury praised the administration and operation of the Atlanta Police Department , the Fulton Tax Commissioner's Office , the Bellwood and Alpharetta prison farms , Grady Hospital and the Fulton Health Department . 
Mayor William B. Hartsfield filed suit for divorce from his wife , Pearl Williams Hartsfield , in Fulton Superior Court Friday . 
His petition charged mental cruelty . 
The couple was married Aug. 2 , 1913 . 
They have a son , William Berry Jr. , and a daughter , Mrs. J. M. Cheshire of Griffin . 
Attorneys for the mayor said that an amicable property settlement has been agreed upon . 
The petition listed the mayor's occupation as `` attorney '' and his age as 71 . 
It listed his wife's age as 74 and place of birth as Opelika , Ala. . 
The petition said that the couple has not lived together as man and wife for more than a year . 
The Hartsfield home is at 637 E. Pelham Rd. Aj . 
Henry L. Bowden was listed on the petition as the mayor's attorney . 
Hartsfield has been mayor of Atlanta , with exception of one brief interlude , since 1937 . 
His political career goes back to his election to city council in 1923 . 
The mayor's present term of office expires Jan. 1 . 
He will be succeeded by Ivan Allen Jr. , who became a candidate in the Sept. 13 primary after Mayor Hartsfield announced that he would not run for reelection . 
Georgia Republicans are getting strong encouragement to enter a candidate in the 1962 governor's race , a top official said Wednesday . 
Robert Snodgrass , state GOP chairman , said a meeting held Tuesday night in Blue Ridge brought enthusiastic responses from the audience . 
State Party Chairman James W. Dorsey added that enthusiasm was picking up for a state rally to be held Sept. 8 in Savannah at which newly elected Texas Sen. John Tower will be the featured speaker . 
In the Blue Ridge meeting , the audience was warned that entering a candidate for governor would force it to take petitions out into voting precincts to obtain the signatures of registered voters . 
Despite the warning , there was a unanimous vote to enter a candidate , according to Republicans who attended . 
When the crowd was asked whether it wanted to wait one more term to make the race , it voted no -- and there were no dissents . 
The largest hurdle the Republicans would have to face is a state law which says that before making a first race , one of two alternative courses must be taken : 1 Five per cent of the voters in each county must sign petitions requesting that the Republicans be allowed to place names of candidates on the general election ballot , or 2 The Republicans must hold a primary under the county unit system -- a system which the party opposes in its platform . 
Sam Caldwell , State Highway Department public relations director , resigned Tuesday to work for Lt. Gov. Garland Byrd's campaign . 
Caldwell's resignation had been expected for some time . 
He will be succeeded by Rob Ledford of Gainesville , who has been an assistant more than three years . 
When the gubernatorial campaign starts , Caldwell is expected to become a campaign coordinator for Byrd . 
The Georgia Legislature will wind up its 1961 session Monday and head for home -- where some of the highway bond money it approved will follow shortly . 
Before adjournment Monday afternoon , the Senate is expected to approve a study of the number of legislators allotted to rural and urban areas to determine what adjustments should be made . 
Gov. Vandiver is expected to make the traditional visit to both chambers as they work toward adjournment . 
Vandiver likely will mention the $100 million highway bond issue approved earlier in the session as his first priority item . 
Construction bonds Meanwhile , it was learned the State Highway Department is very near being ready to issue the first $30 million worth of highway reconstruction bonds . 
The bond issue will go to the state courts for a friendly test suit to test the validity of the act , and then the sales will begin and contracts let for repair work on some of Georgia's most heavily traveled highways . 
A Highway Department source said there also is a plan there to issue some $3 million to $4 million worth of Rural Roads Authority bonds for rural road construction work . 
A revolving fund The department apparently intends to make the Rural Roads Authority a revolving fund under which new bonds would be issued every time a portion of the old ones are paid off by tax authorities . 
Vandiver opened his race for governor in 1958 with a battle in the Legislature against the issuance of $50 million worth of additional rural roads bonds proposed by then Gov. Marvin Griffin . 
The Highway Department source told The Constitution , however , that Vandiver has not been consulted yet about the plans to issue the new rural roads bonds . 
Schley County Rep. B. D. Pelham will offer a resolution Monday in the House to rescind the body's action of Friday in voting itself a $10 per day increase in expense allowances . 
Pelham said Sunday night there was research being done on whether the `` quickie '' vote on the increase can be repealed outright or whether notice would have to first be given that reconsideration of the action would be sought . 
While emphasizing that technical details were not fully worked out , Pelham said his resolution would seek to set aside the privilege resolution which the House voted through 87-31 . 
A similar resolution passed in the Senate by a vote of 29-5 . 
As of Sunday night , there was no word of a resolution being offered there to rescind the action . 
Pelham pointed out that Georgia voters last November rejected a constitutional amendment to allow legislators to vote on pay raises for future Legislature sessions . 
A veteran Jackson County legislator will ask the Georgia House Monday to back federal aid to education , something it has consistently opposed in the past . 
Rep. Mac Barber of Commerce is asking the House in a privilege resolution to `` endorse increased federal support for public education , provided that such funds be received and expended '' as state funds . 
Barber , who is in his 13th year as a legislator , said there `` are some members of our congressional delegation in Washington who would like to see it ( the resolution ) passed '' . 
But he added that none of Georgia's congressmen specifically asked him to offer the resolution . 
The resolution , which Barber tossed into the House hopper Friday , will be formally read Monday . 
It says that `` in the event Congress does provide this increase in federal funds '' , the State Board of Education should be directed to `` give priority '' to teacher pay raises . 
Colquitt -- After a long , hot controversy , Miller County has a new school superintendent , elected , as a policeman put it , in the `` coolest election I ever saw in this county '' . 
The new school superintendent is Harry Davis , a veteran agriculture teacher , who defeated Felix Bush , a school principal and chairman of the Miller County Democratic Executive Committee . 
Davis received 1,119 votes in Saturday's election , and Bush got 402 . 
Ordinary Carey Williams , armed with a pistol , stood by at the polls to insure order . 
`` This was the coolest , calmest election I ever saw '' , Colquitt Policeman Tom Williams said . 
`` Being at the polls was just like being at church . 
I didn't smell a drop of liquor , and we didn't have a bit of trouble '' . 
The campaign leading to the election was not so quiet , however . 
It was marked by controversy , anonymous midnight phone calls and veiled threats of violence . 
The former county school superintendent , George P. Callan , shot himself to death March 18 , four days after he resigned his post in a dispute with the county school board . 
During the election campaign , both candidates , Davis and Bush , reportedly received anonymous telephone calls . 
Ordinary Williams said he , too , was subjected to anonymous calls soon after he scheduled the election . 
Many local citizens feared that there would be irregularities at the polls , and Williams got himself a permit to carry a gun and promised an orderly election . 
Sheriff Felix Tabb said the ordinary apparently made good his promise . 
`` Everything went real smooth '' , the sheriff said . 
`` There wasn't a bit of trouble '' . 
Austin , Texas -- Committee approval of Gov. Price Daniel's `` abandoned property '' act seemed certain Thursday despite the adamant protests of Texas bankers . 
Daniel personally led the fight for the measure , which he had watered down considerably since its rejection by two previous Legislatures , in a public hearing before the House Committee on Revenue and Taxation . 
Under committee rules , it went automatically to a subcommittee for one week . 
But questions with which committee members taunted bankers appearing as witnesses left little doubt that they will recommend passage of it . 
Daniel termed `` extremely conservative '' his estimate that it would produce 17 million dollars to help erase an anticipated deficit of 63 million dollars at the end of the current fiscal year next Aug. 31 . 
He told the committee the measure would merely provide means of enforcing the escheat law which has been on the books `` since Texas was a republic '' . 
It permits the state to take over bank accounts , stocks and other personal property of persons missing for seven years or more . 
The bill , which Daniel said he drafted personally , would force banks , insurance firms , pipeline companies and other corporations to report such property to the state treasurer . 
The escheat law cannot be enforced now because it is almost impossible to locate such property , Daniel declared . 
Dewey Lawrence , a Tyler lawyer representing the Texas Bankers Association , sounded the opposition keynote when he said it would force banks to violate their contractual obligations with depositors and undermine the confidence of bank customers . 
`` If you destroy confidence in banks , you do something to the economy '' , he said . 
`` You take out of circulation many millions of dollars '' . 
Rep. Charles E. Hughes of Sherman , sponsor of the bill , said a failure to enact it would amount `` to making a gift out of the taxpayers' pockets to banks , insurance and pipeline companies '' . 
His contention was denied by several bankers , including Scott Hudson of Sherman , Gaynor B. Jones of Houston , J. B. Brady of Harlingen and Howard Cox of Austin . 
Cox argued that the bill is `` probably unconstitutional '' since , he said , it would impair contracts . 
He also complained that not enough notice was given on the hearing , since the bill was introduced only last Monday . 
Austin , Texas -- Senators unanimously approved Thursday the bill of Sen. George Parkhouse of Dallas authorizing establishment of day schools for the deaf in Dallas and the four other largest counties . 
The bill is designed to provide special schooling for more deaf students in the scholastic age at a reduced cost to the state . 
There was no debate as the Senate passed the bill on to the House . 
It would authorize the Texas Education Agency to establish county-wide day schools for the deaf in counties of 300,000 or more population , require deaf children between 6 and 13 years of age to attend the day schools , permitting older ones to attend the residential Texas School for the Deaf here . 
Operating budget for the day schools in the five counties of Dallas , Harris , Bexar , Tarrant and El Paso would be $451,500 , which would be a savings of $157,460 yearly after the first year's capital outlay of $88,000 was absorbed , Parkhouse told the Senate . 
The TEA estimated there would be 182 scholastics to attend the day school in Dallas County , saving them from coming to Austin to live in the state deaf school . 
Dallas may get to hear a debate on horse race parimutuels soon between Reps. V. E. ( Red ) Berry and Joe Ratcliff . 
While details are still to be worked out , Ratcliff said he expects to tell home folks in Dallas why he thinks Berry's proposed constitutional amendment should be rejected . 
`` We're getting more ' pro ' letters than ' con ' on horse race betting '' , said Ratcliff . 
`` But I believe if people were better informed on this question , most of them would oppose it also . 
I'm willing to stake my political career on it '' . 
Rep. Berry , an ex-gambler from San Antonio , got elected on his advocacy of betting on the ponies . 
A House committee which heard his local option proposal is expected to give it a favorable report , although the resolution faces hard sledding later . 
The house passed finally , and sent to the Senate , a bill extending the State Health Department's authority to give planning assistance to cities . 
The senate quickly whipped through its meager fare of House bills approved by committees , passing the three on the calendar . 
One validated acts of school districts . 
Another enlarged authority of the Beaumont Navigation District . 
The third amended the enabling act for creation of the Lamar county Hospital District , for which a special constitutional amendment previously was adopted . 
Without dissent , senators passed a bill by Sen. A. R. Schwartz of Galveston authorizing establishment in the future of a school for the mentally retarded in the Gulf Coast district . 
Money for its construction will be sought later on but in the meantime the State Hospital board can accept gifts and donations of a site . 
Two tax revision bills were passed . 
One , by Sen. Louis Crump of San Saba , would aid more than 17,000 retailers who pay a group of miscellaneous excise taxes by eliminating the requirement that each return be notarized . 
Instead , retailers would sign a certificate of correctness , violation of which would carry a penalty of one to five years in prison , plus a $1,000 fine . 
It was one of a series of recommendations by the Texas Research League . 
The other bill , by Sen. A. M. Aikin Jr. of Paris , would relieve real estate brokers , who pay their own annual licensing fee , from the $12 annual occupation license on brokers in such as stocks and bonds . 
Natural gas public utility companies would be given the right of eminent domain , under a bill by Sen. Frank Owen 3 , of El Paso , to acquire sites for underground storage reservoirs for gas . 
Marshall Formby of Plainview , former chairman of the Texas Highway Commission , suggested a plan to fill by appointment future vacancies in the Legislature and Congress , eliminating the need for costly special elections . 
Under Formby's plan , an appointee would be selected by a board composed of the governor , lieutenant governor , speaker of the House , attorney general and chief justice of the Texas Supreme Court . 
Austin , Texas -- State representatives decided Thursday against taking a poll on what kind of taxes Texans would prefer to pay . 
An adverse vote of 81 to 65 kept in the State Affairs Committee a bill which would order the referendum on the April 4 ballot , when Texas votes on a U.S. senator . 
Rep. Wesley Roberts of Seminole , sponsor of the poll idea , said that further delay in the committee can kill the bill . 
The West Texan reported that he had finally gotten Chairman Bill Hollowell of the committee to set it for public hearing on Feb. 22 . 
The proposal would have to receive final legislative approval , by two-thirds majorities , before March 1 to be printed on the April 4 ballot , Roberts said . 
Opponents generally argued that the ballot couldn't give enough information about tax proposals for the voters to make an intelligent choice . 
All Dallas members voted with Roberts , except Rep. Bill Jones , who was absent . 
Austin , Texas -- Paradise lost to the alleged water needs of Texas' big cities Thursday . 
Rep. James Cotten of Weatherford insisted that a water development bill passed by the Texas House of Representatives was an effort by big cities like Dallas and Fort Worth to cover up places like Paradise , a Wise County hamlet of 250 people . 
When the shouting ended , the bill passed , 114 to 4 , sending it to the Senate , where a similar proposal is being sponsored by Sen. George Parkhouse of Dallas . 
Most of the fire was directed by Cotten against Dallas and Sen. Parkhouse . 
The bill would increase from $5,000,000 to $15,000,000 the maximum loan the state could make to a local water project . 
Cotten construed this as a veiled effort by Parkhouse to help Dallas and other large cities get money which Cotten felt could better be spent providing water for rural Texas . 
Statements by other legislators that Dallas is paying for all its water program by local bonds , and that less populous places would benefit most by the pending bill , did not sway Cotten's attack . 
The bill's defenders were mostly small-town legislators like J. W. Buchanan of Dumas , Eligio ( Kika ) De La Garza of Mission , Sam F. Collins of Newton and Joe Chapman of Sulphur Springs . 
`` This is a poor boy's bill '' , said Chapman . 
`` Dallas and Fort Worth can vote bonds . 
This would help the little peanut districts '' . 
Austin , Texas -- A Houston teacher , now serving in the Legislature , proposed Thursday a law reducing the time spent learning `` educational methods '' . 
Rep. Henry C. Grover , who teaches history in the Houston public schools , would reduce from 24 to 12 semester hours the so-called `` teaching methods '' courses required to obtain a junior or senior high school teaching certificate . 
A normal year's work in college is 30 semester hours . 
Grover also would require junior-senior high teachers to have at least 24 semester hours credit in the subject they are teaching . 
The remainder of the 4-year college requirement would be in general subjects . 
`` A person with a master's degree in physics , chemistry , math or English , yet who has not taken Education courses , is not permitted to teach in the public schools '' , said Grover . 
College teachers in Texas are not required to have the Education courses . 
Fifty-three of the 150 representatives immediately joined Grover as co-signers of the proposal . 
Paris , Texas ( sp. ) -- The board of regents of Paris Junior College has named Dr. Clarence Charles Clark of Hays , Kan. as the school's new president . 
Dr. Clark will succeed Dr. J. R. McLemore , who will retire at the close of the present school term . 
Dr. Clark holds an earned Doctor of Education degree from the University of Oklahoma . 
He also received a Master of Science degree from Texas A & I College and a Bachelor of Science degree from Southwestern State College , Weatherford , Okla. . 
In addition , Dr. Clark has studied at Rhode Island State College and Massachusetts Institute of Technology . 
During his college career , Dr. Clark was captain of his basketball team and was a football letterman . 
Dr. Clark has served as teacher and principal in Oklahoma high schools , as teacher and athletic director at Raymondville , Texas , High School , as an instructor at the University of Oklahoma , and as an associate professor of education at Fort Hays , Kan. , State College . 
He has served as a border patrolman and was in the Signal Corps of the U.S. Army . 
Denton , Texas ( sp. ) -- Principals of the 13 schools in the Denton Independent School District have been re-elected for the 1961-62 session upon the recommendation of Supt. Chester O. Strickland . 
State and federal legislation against racial discrimination in employment was called for yesterday in a report of a `` blue ribbon '' citizens committee on the aid to dependent children program . 
The report , culminating a year long study of the ADC program in Cook county by a New York City welfare consulting firm , listed 10 long range recommendations designed to reduce the soaring ADC case load . 
The report called racial discrimination in employment `` one of the most serious causes of family breakdown , desertion , and ADC dependency '' . 
`` Must solve problem '' The monthly cost of ADC to more than 100,000 recipients in the county is 4.4 million dollars , said C. Virgil Martin , president of Carson Pirie Scott & Co. , committee chairman . 
`` We must solve the problems which have forced these people to depend upon ADC for subsistence '' , Martin said . 
The volume of ADC cases will decrease , Martin reported , when the community is able to deal effectively with two problems : Relatively limited skills and discrimination in employment because of color . 
These , he said , are `` two of the principal underlying causes for family breakups leading to ADC '' . 
Calls for extension Other recommendations made by the committee are : Extension of the ADC program to all children in need living with any relatives , including both parents , as a means of preserving family unity . 
Research projects as soon as possible on the causes and prevention of dependency and illegitimacy . 
Several defendants in the Summerdale police burglary trial made statements indicating their guilt at the time of their arrest , Judge James B. Parsons was told in Criminal court yesterday . 
The disclosure by Charles Bellows , chief defense counsel , startled observers and was viewed as the prelude to a quarrel between the six attorneys representing the eight former policemen now on trial . 
Bellows made the disclosure when he asked Judge Parsons to grant his client , Alan Clements , 30 , a separate trial . 
Bellows made the request while the all-woman jury was out of the courtroom . 
Fears prejudicial aspects `` The statements may be highly prejudicial to my client '' , Bellows told the court . 
`` Some of the defendants strongly indicated they knew they were receiving stolen property . 
It is impossible to get a fair trial when some of the defendants made statements involving themselves and others '' . 
Judge Parsons leaned over the bench and inquired , `` You mean some of the defendants made statements admitting this '' ? 
`` Yes , your honor '' , replied Bellows . 
`` What this amounts to , if true , is that there will be a free-for-all fight in this case . 
There is a conflict among the defendants '' . 
Washington , July 24 -- President Kennedy today pushed aside other White House business to devote all his time and attention to working on the Berlin crisis address he will deliver tomorrow night to the American people over nationwide television and radio . 
The President spent much of the week-end at his summer home on Cape Cod writing the first drafts of portions of the address with the help of White House aids in Washington with whom he talked by telephone . 
Shortly after the Chief Executive returned to Washington in midmorning from Hyannis Port , Mass. , a White House spokesman said the address text still had `` quite a way to go '' toward completion . 
Decisions are made Asked to elaborate , Pierre Salinger , White House press secretary , replied , `` I would say it's got to go thru several more drafts '' . 
Salinger said the work President Kennedy , advisers , and members of his staff were doing on the address involved composition and wording , rather than last minute decisions on administration plans to meet the latest Berlin crisis precipitated by Russia's demands and proposals for the city . 
The last 10 cases in the investigation of the Nov. 8 election were dismissed yesterday by Acting Judge John M. Karns , who charged that the prosecution obtained evidence `` by unfair and fundamentally illegal means '' . 
Karns said that the cases involved a matter `` of even greater significance than the guilt or innocence '' of the 50 persons . 
He said evidence was obtained `` in violation of the legal rights of citizens '' . 
Karns' ruling pertained to eight of the 10 cases . 
In the two other cases he ruled that the state had been `` unable to make a case '' . 
Contempt proceedings originally had been brought against 677 persons in 133 precincts by Morris J. Wexler , special prosecutor . 
Issue jury subpoenas Wexler admitted in earlier court hearings that he issued grand jury subpenas to about 200 persons involved in the election investigation , questioned the individuals in the Criminal courts building , but did not take them before the grand jury . 
Mayer Goldberg , attorney for election judges in the 58th precinct of the 23d ward , argued this procedure constituted intimidation . 
Wexler has denied repeatedly that coercion was used in questioning . 
Karns said it was a `` wrongful act '' for Wexler to take statements `` privately and outside of the grand jury room '' . 
He said this constituted a `` very serious misuse '' of the Criminal court processes . 
`` Actually , the abuse of the process may have constituted a contempt of the Criminal court of Cook county , altho vindication of the authority of that court is not the function of this court '' , said Karns , who is a City judge in East St. Louis sitting in Cook County court . 
Faced seven cases Karns had been scheduled this week to hear seven cases involving 35 persons . 
Wexler had charged the precinct judges in these cases with `` complementary '' miscount of the vote , in which votes would be taken from one candidate and given to another . 
The cases involved judges in the 33d , 24th , and 42d precincts of the 31st ward , the 21st and 28th precincts of the 29th ward , the 18th precinct of the 4th ward , and the 9th precinct of the 23d ward . 
The case of the judges in the 58th precinct of the 23d ward had been heard previously and taken under advisement by Karns . 
Two other cases also were under advisement . 
Claims precedent lacking After reading his statement discharging the 23d ward case , Karns told Wexler that if the seven cases scheduled for trial also involved persons who had been subpenaed , he would dismiss them . 
Washington , Feb. 9 -- President Kennedy today proposed a mammoth new medical care program whereby social security taxes on 70 million American workers would be raised to pay the hospital and some other medical bills of 14.2 million Americans over 65 who are covered by social security or railroad retirement programs . 
The President , in a special message to Congress , tied in with his aged care plan requests for large federal grants to finance medical and dental scholarships , build 20 new medical and 20 new dental schools , and expand child health care and general medical research . 
The aged care plan , similar to one the President sponsored last year as a senator , a fight on Capitol hill . 
It was defeated in Congress last year . 
Cost up to $37 a year It would be financed by boosting the social security payroll tax by as much as $37 a year for each of the workers now paying such taxes . 
The social security payroll tax is now 6 per cent -- 3 per cent on each worker and employer -- on the first $4,800 of pay per year . 
The Kennedy plan alone would boost the base to $5,000 a year and the payroll tax to 6.5 per cent -- 3.25 per cent each . 
Similar payroll tax boosts would be imposed on those under the railroad retirement system . 
The payroll tax would actually rise to 7.5 per cent starting Jan. 1 , 1963 , if the plan is approved , because the levy is already scheduled to go up by 1 per cent on that date to pay for other social security costs . 
Outlays would increase Officials estimated the annual tax boost for the medical plan would amount to 1.5 billion dollars and that medical benefits paid out would run 1 billion or more in the first year , 1963 . 
Both figures would go higher in later years . 
Other parts of the Kennedy health plan would entail federal grants of 750 million to 1 billion dollars over the next 10 years . 
These would be paid for out of general , not payroll , taxes . 
Nursing home care The aged care plan carries these benefits for persons over 65 who are under the social security and railroad retirement systems : 1 Full payment of hospital bills for stays up to 90 days for each illness , except that the patient would pay $10 a day of the cost for the first nine days . 
2 Full payment of nursing home bills for up to 180 days following discharge from a hospital . 
A patient could receive up to 300 days paid-for nursing home care under a `` unit formula '' allowing more of such care for those who use none or only part of the hospital-care credit . 
3 Hospital outpatient clinic diagnostic service for all costs in excess of $20 a patient . 
4 Community visiting nurse services at home for up to 240 days an illness . 
The President noted that Congress last year passed a law providing grants to states to help pay medical bills of the needy aged . 
Calls proposal modest He said his plan is designed to `` meet the needs of those millions who have no wish to receive care at the taxpayers' expense , but who are nevertheless staggered by the drain on their savings -- or those of their children -- caused by an extended hospital stay '' . 
`` This is a very modest proposal cut to meet absolutely essential needs '' , he said , `` and with sufficient ' deductible ' requirements to discourage any malingering or unnecessary overcrowding of our hospitals . 
`` This is not a program of socialized medicine . 
It is a program of prepayment of health costs with absolute freedom of choice guaranteed . 
Every person will choose his own doctor and hospital '' . 
Wouldn't pay doctors The plan does not cover doctor bills . 
They would still be paid by the patient . 
Apart from the aged care plan the President's most ambitious and costly proposals were for federal scholarships , and grants to build or enlarge medical and dental schools . 
The President said the nation's 92 medical and 47 dental schools cannot now handle the student load needed to meet the rising need for health care . 
Moreover , he said , many qualified young people are not going into medicine and dentistry because they can't afford the schooling costs . 
Contributions to schools The scholarship plan would provide federal contributions to each medical and dental school equal to $1,500 a year for one-fourth of the first year students . 
The schools could use the money to pay 4-year scholarships , based on need , of up to $2,000 a year per student . 
In addition , the government would pay a $1,000 `` cost of education '' grant to the schools for each $1,500 in scholarship grants . 
Officials estimated the combined programs would cost 5.1 million dollars the first year and would go up to 21 millions by 1966 . 
The President recommended federal `` matching grants '' totaling 700 million dollars in 10 years for constructing new medical and dental schools or enlarging the capacity of existing ones . 
More for nursing homes In the area of `` community health services '' , the President called for doubling the present 10 million dollar a year federal grants for nursing home construction . 
He asked for another 10 million dollar `` initial '' appropriation for `` stimulatory grants '' to states to improve nursing homes . 
He further proposed grants of an unspecified sum for experimental hospitals . 
In the child health field , the President said he will recommend later an increase in funds for programs under the children's bureau . 
He also asked Congress to approve establishment of a national child health institute . 
Asks research funds The President said he will ask Congress to increase grants to states for vocational rehabilitation . 
He did not say by how much . 
For medical research he asked a 20 million dollar a year increase , from 30 to 50 millions , in matching grants for building research facilities . 
The President said he will also propose increasing , by an unspecified amount , the 540 million dollars in the 1961-62 budget for direct government research in medicine . 
The President said his proposals combine the `` indispensable elements in a sound health program -- people , knowledge , services , facilities , and the means to pay for them '' . 
Reaction as expected Congressional reaction to the message was along expected lines . 
Legislators who last year opposed placing aged-care under the social security system criticized the President's plan . 
Those who backed a similar plan last year hailed the message . 
Senate Republican Leader Dirksen ( Ill. ) and House Republican Leader Charles Halleck ( Ind. ) said the message did not persuade them to change their opposition to compulsory medical insurance . 
Halleck said the voluntary care plan enacted last year should be given a fair trial first . 
House Speaker Sam Rayburn ( D. , Tex. ) called the Kennedy program `` a mighty fine thing '' , but made no prediction on its fate in the House . 
Washington , Feb. 9 -- Acting hastily under White House pressure , the Senate tonight confirmed Robert C. Weaver as the nation's federal housing chief . 
Only 11 senators were on the floor and there was no record vote . 
A number of scattered `` ayes '' and `` noes '' was heard . 
Customary Senate rules were ignored in order to speed approval of the Negro leader as administrator of the housing and home finance agency . 
In the last eight years , all Presidential appointments , including those of cabinet rank , have been denied immediate action because of a Senate rule requiring at least a 24 hour delay after they are reported to the floor . 
Enforce by demand The rule was enforced by demand of Sen. Wayne Morse ( D. , Ore. ) in connection with President Eisenhower's cabinet selections in 1953 and President Kennedy's in 1961 . 
Oslo The most positive element to emerge from the Oslo meeting of North Atlantic Treaty Organization Foreign Ministers has been the freer , franker , and wider discussions , animated by much better mutual understanding than in past meetings . 
This has been a working session of an organization that , by its very nature , can only proceed along its route step by step and without dramatic changes . 
In Oslo , the ministers have met in a climate of candor , and made a genuine attempt to get information and understanding one another's problems . 
This atmosphere of understanding has been particularly noticeable where relations are concerned between the `` colonialist '' powers and those who have never , or not for a long time , had such problems . 
The nightmare of a clash between those in trouble in Africa , exacerbated by the difficulties , changes , and tragedies facing them , and other allies who intellectually and emotionally disapprove of the circumstances that have brought these troubles about , has been conspicuous by its absence . 
Explosion avoided In the case of Portugal , which a few weeks ago was rumored ready to walk out of the NATO Council should critics of its Angola policy prove harsh , there has been a noticeable relaxation of tension . 
The general , remarkably courteous , explanation has left basic positions unchanged , but there has been no explosion in the council . 
There should even be no more bitter surprises in the UN General Assembly as to NATO members' votes , since a new ad hoc NATO committee has been set up so that in the future such topics as Angola will be discussed in advance . 
Canada alone has been somewhat out of step with the Oslo attempt to get all the allied cars back on the track behind the NATO locomotive . 
Even Norway , despite daily but limited manifestations against atomic arms in the heart of this northernmost capital of the alliance , is today closer to the NATO line . 
On the negative side of the balance sheet must be set some disappointment that the United States leadership has not been as much in evidence as hoped for . 
One diplomat described the tenor of Secretary of State Dean Rusk's speeches as `` inconclusive '' . 
But he hastened to add that , if United States policies were not always clear , despite Mr. Rusk's analysis of the various global danger points and setbacks for the West , this may merely mean the new administration has not yet firmly fixed its policy . 
Exploratory mood A certain vagueness may also be caused by tactical appreciation of the fact that the present council meeting is a semipublic affair , with no fewer than six Soviet correspondents accredited . 
The impression has nevertheless been given during these three days , despite Mr. Rusk's personal popularity , that the United States delegation came to Oslo in a somewhat tentative and exploratory frame of mind , more ready to listen and learn than to enunciate firm policy on a global scale with detailed application to individual danger spots . 
The Secretary of State himself , in his first speech , gave some idea of the tremendous march of events inside and outside the United States that has preoccupied the new administration in the past four months . 
But where the core of NATO is concerned , the Secretary of State has not only reiterated the United States' profound attachment to the alliance , `` cornerstone '' of its foreign policy , but has announced that five nuclear submarines will eventually be at NATO's disposal in European waters . 
The Secretary of State has also solemnly repeated a warning to the Soviet Union that the United States will not stand for another setback in Berlin , an affirmation once again taken up by the council as a whole . 
Conflict surveyed The secretary's greatest achievement is perhaps the rekindling of NATO realization that East-West friction , wherever it take place around the globe , is in essence the general conflict between two entirely different societies , and must be treated as such without regard to geographical distance or lack of apparent connection . 
The annual spring meeting has given an impetus in three main directions : more , deeper , and more timely political consultation within the alliance , the use of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development ( when ratified ) as a method of coordinating aid to the underdeveloped countries , and the need for strengthening conventional forces as well as the maintenance of the nuclear deterrent . 
This increase in the `` threshold '' , as the conventional forces strengthening is called , will prove one of the alliance's most difficult problems in the months to come . 
Each ally will have to carry out obligations long since laid down , but never completely fulfilled . 
Washington The Kennedy administration moves haltingly toward a Geneva conference on Laos just as serious debate over its foreign policy erupts for the first time . 
There is little optimism here that the Communists will be any more docile at the conference table than they were in military actions on the ground in Laos . 
The United States , State Department officials explain , now is mainly interested in setting up an international inspection system which will prevent Laos from being used as a base for Communist attacks on neighboring Thailand and South Viet Nam . 
They count on the aid of the neutral countries attending the Geneva conference to achieve this . 
The United States hopes that any future Lao Cabinet would not become Communist dominated . 
But it is apparent that no acceptable formula has been found to prevent such a possibility . 
Policies modified The inclination here is to accept a de facto cease-fire in Laos , rather than continue to insist on a verification of the cease-fire by the international control commission before participating in the Geneva conference . 
This is another of the modifications of policy on Laos that the Kennedy administration has felt compelled to make . 
It excuses these actions as being the chain reaction to basic errors made in the previous administration . 
Its spokesmen insist that there has not been time enough to institute reforms in military and economic aid policies in the critical areas . 
But with the months moving on -- and the immediate confrontations with the Communists showing no gain for the free world -- the question arises : How effective have Kennedy administration first foreign policy decisions been in dealing with Communist aggression ? 
Former Vice-President Richard M. Nixon in Detroit called for a firmer and tougher policy toward the Soviet Union . 
He was critical of what he feels is President Kennedy's tendency to be too conciliatory . 
GOP restrained It does not take a Gallup poll to find out that most Republicans in Congress feel this understates the situation as Republicans see it . 
They can hardly restrain themselves from raising the question of whether Republicans , if they had been in power , would have made `` amateurish and monumental blunders '' in Cuba . 
One Republican senator told this correspondent that he was constantly being asked why he didn't attack the Kennedy administration on this score . 
His reply , he said , was that he agreed to the need for unity in the country now . 
But he further said that it was better politics to let others question the wisdom of administration policies first . 
The Republicans some weeks ago served notice through Senator Thruston B. Morton ( R ) of Kentucky , chairman of the Republican National Committee , that the Kennedy administration would be held responsible if the outcome in Laos was a coalition government susceptible of Communist domination . 
Kennedy administration policies also have been assailed now from another direction by 70 Harvard , Boston University , Brandeis , and Massachusetts Institute of Technology educators . 
Detente urged This group pleads with the administration to `` give no further support for the invasion of Cuba by exile groups '' . 
It recommends that the United States `` seek instead to detach the Castro regime from the Communist bloc by working for a diplomatic detente and a resumption of trade relations ; ; and concentrate its constructive efforts on eliminating in other parts of Latin America the social conditions on which totalitarian nationalism feeds '' . 
Mr. Nixon , for his part , would oppose intervention in Cuba without specific provocation . 
But he did recommend that President Kennedy state clearly that if Communist countries shipped any further arms to Cuba that it would not be tolerated . 
Until the Cuban fiasco and the Communist military victories in Laos , almost any observer would have said that President Kennedy had blended a program that respected , generally , the opinions voiced both by Mr. Nixon and the professors . 
Aid plans revamped Very early in his administration he informed the Kremlin through diplomatic channels , a high official source disclosed , that the new administration would react even tougher than the Eisenhower administration would during the formative period of the administration . 
Strenuous efforts were made to remove pin pricking from administration statements . 
Policies on nuclear test ban negotiations were reviewed and changed . 
But thus far there has been no response in kind . 
Foreign aid programs were revamped to give greater emphasis to economic aid and to encourage political reform in recipient nations . 
In Laos , the administration looked at the Eisenhower administration efforts to show determination by sailing a naval fleet into Southeast Asian waters as a useless gesture . 
Again and again it asked the Communists to `` freeze '' the military situation in Laos . 
But the Communists aided the Pathet Lao at an even faster rate . 
And after several correspondents went into Pathet Lao territory and exposed the huge build-up , administration spokesmen acclaimed them for performing a `` great service '' and laid the matter before the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization . 
SEATO was steamed up and prepared contingency plans for coping with the military losses in Laos . 
But the Communists never gave sufficient provocation at any one time for the United States to want to risk a limited or an all-out war over Laos . 
( Some SEATO nations disagreed , however . 
) There was the further complication that the administration had very early concluded that Laos was ill suited to be an ally , unlike its more determined neighbors , Thailand and South Viet Nam . 
The administration declared itself in favor of a neutralized Laos . 
The pro-Western government , which the United States had helped in a revolt against the Souvanna Phouma `` neutralist '' government , never did appear to spark much fighting spirit in the Royal Lao Army . 
There certainly was not any more energy displayed after it was clear the United States would not back the pro-Western government to the hilt . 
If the administration ever had any ideas that it could find an acceptable alternative to Prince Souvanna Phouma , whom it felt was too trusting of Communists , it gradually had to relinquish them . 
One factor was the statement of Senator J. W. Fulbright ( D ) of Arkansas , chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee . 
He declared on March 25 that the United States had erred a year and a half ago by `` encouraging the removal '' of Prince Souvanna . 
Washington The White House is taking extraordinary steps to check the rapid growth of juvenile delinquency in the United States . 
The President is deeply concerned over this problem and its effect upon the `` vitality of the nation '' . 
In an important assertion of national leadership in this field , he has issued an executive order establishing the President's committee on Juvenile Delinquency and Crime , to be supported and assisted by a Citizens Advisory Council of recognized authorities on juvenile problems . 
The President asks the support and cooperation of Congress in his efforts through the enactment of legislation to provide federal grants to states for specified efforts in combating this disturbing crime trend . 
Offenses multiply The President has also called upon the Attorney General , the Secretary of Health , Education and Welfare , and the Secretary of Labor to coordinate their efforts `` in the development of a program of federal leadership to assist states and local communities in their efforts to cope with the problem . 
Simultaneously the President announced Thursday the appointment of David L. Hackett , a special assistant to the Attorney General , as executive director of the new Committee on Juvenile Delinquency and Youth Crime . 
His sense of urgency in this matter stems from the fact that court cases and juvenile arrests have more than doubled since 1948 , each year showing an increase in offenders . 
Among arrests reported by the Federal Bureau of Investigation in 1959 , about half for burglary and larceny involved persons under 18 years of age . 
East Providence should organize its civil defense setup and begin by appointing a full-time director , Raymond H. Hawksley , the present city CD head , believes . 
Mr. Hawksley said yesterday he would be willing to go before the city council `` or anyone else locally '' to outline his proposal at the earliest possible time . 
East Providence now has no civil defense program . 
Mr. Hawksley , the state's general treasurer , has been a part-time CD director in the city for the last nine years . 
He is not interested in being named a full-time director . 
Noting that President Kennedy has handed the Defense Department the major responsibility for the nation's civil defense program , Mr. Hawksley said the federal government would pay half the salary of a full-time local director . 
He expressed the opinion the city could hire a CD director for about $3,500 a year and would only have to put up half that amount on a matching fund basis to defray the salary costs . 
Mr. Hawksley said he believed there are a number of qualified city residents who would be willing to take the full-time CD job . 
One of these men is former Fire Chief John A. Laughlin , he said . 
Along with a director , the city should provide a CD headquarters so that pertinent information about the local organization would be centralized . 
Mr. Hawksley said . 
One advantage that would come to the city in having a full-time director , he said , is that East Providence would become eligible to apply to the federal government for financial aid in purchasing equipment needed for a sound civil defense program . 
Matching funds also can be obtained for procurement of such items as radios , sirens and rescue trucks , he said . 
Mr. Hawksley believes that East Providence could use two more rescue trucks , similar to the CD vehicle obtained several years ago and now detailed to the Central Fire Station . 
He would assign one of the rescue trucks to the Riverside section of the city and the other to the Rumford area . 
Speaking of the present status of civil defense in the city , Mr. Hawksley said he would be willing to bet that not more than one person in a hundred would know what to do or where to go in the event of an enemy attack . 
The Narragansett Race Track grounds is one assembly point , he said , and a drive-in theater in Seekonk would be another . 
Riverside residents would go to the Seekonk assembly point . 
Mr. Hawksley said he was not critical of city residents for not knowing what to do or where to assemble in case of an air attack . 
Such vital information , he said , has to be made available to the public frequently and at regular intervals for residents to know . 
If the city council fails to consider appointment of a full-time CD director , Mr. Hawksley said , then he plans to call a meeting early in September so that a civil defense organization will be developed locally . 
One of the first things he would do , he said , would be to organize classes in first aid . 
Other steps would be developed after information drifts down to the local level from the federal government . 
Rhode Island is going to examine its Sunday sales law with possible revisions in mind . 
Governor Notte said last night he plans to name a committee to make the study and come up with recommendations for possible changes in time for the next session of the General Assembly . 
The governor's move into the so-called `` blue law '' controversy came in the form of a letter to Miss Mary R. Grant , deputy city clerk of Central Falls . 
A copy was released to the press . 
Mr. Notte was responding to a resolution adopted by the Central Falls City Council on July 10 and sent to the state house by Miss Grant . 
The resolution urges the governor to have a complete study of the Sunday sales laws made with an eye to their revision at the next session of the legislature . 
While the city council suggested that the Legislative Council might perform the review , Mr. Notte said that instead he will take up the matter with Atty. Gen. J. Joseph Nugent to get `` the benefit of his views '' . 
He will then appoint the study committee with Mr. Nugent's cooperation , the governor said . 
`` I would expect the proposed committee to hold public hearings '' , Mr. Notte said , `` to obtain the views of the general public and religious , labor and special-interest groups affected by these laws '' . 
The governor wrote Miss Grant that he has been concerned for some time `` with the continuous problem which confronts our local and state law enforcement officers as a result of the laws regulating Sunday sales '' . 
The attorney general has advised local police that it is their duty to enforce the blue laws . 
Should there be evidence they are shirking , he has said , the state police will step into the situation . 
There has been more activity across the state line in Massachusetts than in Rhode Island in recent weeks toward enforcement of the Sunday sales laws . 
The statutes , similar in both the Bay State and Rhode Island and dating back in some instances to colonial times , severely limit the types of merchandise that may be sold on the Sabbath . 
The Central Falls City Council expressed concern especially that more foods be placed on the eligible list and that neighborhood grocery and variety stores be allowed to do business on Sunday . 
The only day they `` have a chance to compete with large supermarkets is on Sunday '' , the council's resolution said . 
The small shops `` must be retained , for they provide essential service to the community '' , according to the resolution , which added that they `` also are the source of livelihood for thousands of our neighbors '' . 
It declares that Sunday sales licenses provide `` great revenue '' to the local government . 
The council advised the governor that `` large supermarkets , factory outlets and department stores not be allowed to do business '' on Sunday . 
They `` operate on a volume basis '' , it was contended , `` and are not essential to provide the more limited but vital shopping needs of the community '' . 
Liberals and conservatives in both parties -- Democratic and Republican -- should divorce themselves and form two independent parties , George H. Reama , nationally known labor-management expert , said here yesterday . 
Mr. Reama told the Rotary Club of Providence at its luncheon at the Sheraton-Biltmore Hotel that about half of the people in the country want the `` welfare '' type of government and the other half want a free enterprise system . 
He suggested that a regrouping of forces might allow the average voter a better pull at the right lever for him on election day . 
He said he was `` confessing that I was a member of the Socialist Party in 1910 '' . 
That , he added , was when he was `` a very young man , a machinist and toolmaker by trade . 
`` That was before I studied law . 
Some of my fellow workers were grooming me for an office in the Socialist Party . 
The lawyer with whom I studied law steered me off the Socialist track . 
He steered me to the right track -- the free enterprise track '' . 
He said that when he was a Socialist in 1910 , the party called for government operation of all utilities and the pooling of all resources . 
He suggested that without the Socialist Party ever gaining a national victory , most of its original program has come to pass under both major parties . 
Mr. Reama , who retired as vice president of the American Screw Co. in 1955 said , `` Both parties in the last election told us that we need a five per cent growth in the gross national product -- but neither told us how to achieve it '' . 
He said he favors wage increases for workers -- `` but manufacturers are caught in a profit squeeze '' -- and raises should only come when the public is conditioned to higher prices , he added . 
Indicating the way in which he has turned his back on his 1910 philosophy , Mr. Reama said : `` A Socialist is a person who believes in dividing everything he does not own '' . 
Mr. Reama , far from really being retired , is engaged in industrial relations counseling . 
A petition bearing the signatures of more than 1,700 Johnston taxpayers was presented to the town council last night as what is hoped will be the first step in obtaining a home rule charter for the town . 
William A. Martinelli , chairman of the Citizens Group of Johnston , transferred the petitions from his left hand to his right hand after the council voted to accept them at the suggestion of Council President Raymond Fortin Sr. . 
The law which governs home rule charter petitions states that they must be referred to the chairman of the board of canvassers for verification of the signatures within 10 days and Mr. Martinelli happens to hold that post . 
Mr. Martinelli explained that there should be more than enough signatures to assure the scheduling of a vote on the home rule charter and possible election of a nine member charter commission within 70 days . 
He explained that by law the council must establish procedures for a vote on the issue within 60 days after the board of canvassers completes its work . 
A difference of opinion arose between Mr. Martinelli and John P. Bourcier , town solicitor , over the exact manner in which the vote is handled . 
Mr. Martinelli has , in recent weeks , been of the opinion that a special town meeting would be called for the vote , while Mr. Bourcier said that a special election might be called instead . 
Mr. Bourcier said that he had consulted several Superior Court justices in the last week and received opinions favoring both procedures . 
He assured Mr. Martinelli and the council that he would study the correct method and report back to the council as soon as possible . 
Mr. Martinelli said yesterday that the Citizens Group of Johnston will meet again July 24 to plan further strategy in the charter movement . 
He said that the group has no candidates for the charter commission in mind at present , but that it will undoubtedly endorse candidates when the time comes . 
`` After inspiring this , I think we should certainly follow through on it '' , he declared . 
`` It has become our responsibility and I hope that the Citizens Group will spearhead the movement '' . 
He said he would not be surprised if some of the more than 30 members of the group are interested in running on the required non-partisan ballot for posts on the charter commission . 
`` Our most immediate goal is to increase public awareness of the movement '' , he indicated , `` and to tell them what this will mean for the town '' . 
He expects that if the present timetable is followed a vote will be scheduled during the last week in September . 
Some opposition to the home rule movement started to be heard yesterday , with spokesmen for the town's insurgent Democratic leadership speaking out against the home rule charter in favor of the model municipal league charter . 
Increasing opposition can be expected in coming weeks , it was indicated . 
Misunderstanding of the real meaning of a home rule charter was cited as a factor which has caused the Citizens Group to obtain signatures under what were termed `` false pretenses '' . 
Several signers affixed their names , it was learned , after being told that no tax increase would be possible without consent of the General Assembly and that a provision could be included in the charter to have the town take over the Johnston Sanitary District sewer system . 
Action on a new ordinance permitting motorists who plead guilty to minor traffic offenses to pay fines at the local police station may be taken at Monday's special North Providence Town Council meeting . 
Council president Frank SanAntonio said yesterday he may ask the council to formally request Town Solicitor Michael A. Abatuno to draft the ordinance . 
At the last session of the General Assembly , the town was authorized to adopt such an ordinance as a means of making enforcement of minor offenses more effective . 
Nothing has been done yet to take advantage of the enabling legislation . 
At present all offenses must be taken to Sixth District Court for disposition . 
Local police have hesitated to prosecute them because of the heavy court costs involved even for the simplest offense . 
Plainfield -- James P. Mitchell and Sen. Walter H. Jones R-Bergen , last night disagreed on the value of using as a campaign issue a remark by Richard J. Hughes , Democratic gubernatorial candidate , that the GOP is `` Campaigning on the carcass of Eisenhower Republicanism '' . 
Mitchell was for using it , Jones against , and Sen. Wayne Dumont Jr. R-Warren did not mention it when the three Republican gubernatorial candidates spoke at staggered intervals before 100 persons at the Park Hotel . 
The controversial remark was first made Sunday by Hughes at a Westfield Young Democratic Club cocktail party at the Scotch Plains Country Club . 
It was greeted with a chorus of boos by 500 women in Trenton Monday at a forum of the State Federation of Women's Clubs . 
Hughes said Monday , `` It is the apparent intention of the Republican Party to campaign on the carcass of what they call Eisenhower Republicanism , but the heart stopped beating and the lifeblood congealed after Eisenhower retired . 
Now he's gone , the Republican Party is not going to be able to sell the tattered remains to the people of the state '' . 
Sunday he had added , `` We can love Eisenhower the man , even if we considered him a mediocre president but there is nothing left of the Republican Party without his leadership '' . 
Mitchell said the statement should become a major issue in the primary and the fall campaign . 
`` How can a man with any degree of common decency charge this '' ? 
He asked . 
The former secretary of labor said he was proud to be an Eisenhower Republican `` and proud to have absorbed his philosophy '' while working in his adminstration . 
Mitchell said the closeness of the outcome in last fall's Presidential election did not mean that Eisenhower Republicanism was a dead issue . 
Regrets attack Jones said he regretted Hughes had made a personal attack on a past president . 
`` He is wrong to inject Eisenhower into this campaign '' , he said , `` because the primary is being waged on state issues and I will not be forced into re-arguing an old national campaign '' . 
The audience last night did not respond with either applause or boos to mention of Hughes' remark . 
Dumont spoke on the merit of having an open primary . 
He then launched into what the issues should be in the campaign . 
State aid to schools , the continuance of railroad passenger service , the proper uses of surplus funds of the Port of New York Authority , and making New Jersey attractive to new industry . 
Decries joblessness Mitchell decried the high rate of unemployment in the state and said the Meyner administration and the Republican-controlled State Senate `` Must share the blame for this '' . 
Noting that Plainfield last year had lost the Mack Truck Co. plant , he said industry will not come into this state until there is tax reform . 
`` But I am not in favor of a sales or state income tax at this time '' , Mitchell said . 
Jones , unhappy that the candidates were limited to eight minutes for a speech and no audience questions , saved his barbs for Mitchell . 
He said Mitchell is against the centralization of government in Washington but looks to the Kennedy Administration for aid to meet New Jersey school and transportation crises . 
`` He calls for help while saying he is against centralization , but you can't have it both ways '' , Jones said . 
The state is now faced with the immediate question of raising new taxes whether on utilities , real estate or motor vehicles , he said , `` and I challenge Mitchell to tell the people where he stands on the tax issue '' . 
Defends Ike Earlier , Mitchell said in a statement : `` I think that all Americans will resent deeply the statements made about President Eisenhower by Richard J. Hughes . 
His reference to ' discredited carcass ' or ' tattered remains ' of the president's leadership is an insult to the man who led our forces to victory in the greatest war in all history , to the man who was twice elected overwhelmingly by the American people as president of the United States , and who has been the symbol to the world of the peace-loving intentions of the free nations . 
`` I find it hard to understand how anyone seeking a position in public life could demonstrate such poor judgment and bad taste . 
`` Such a vicious statement can only have its origin in the desire of a new political candidate to try to make his name known by condemning a man of world stature . 
It can only rebound to Mr. Hughes' discredit '' . 
Sees Jones ahead Sen. Charles W. Sandman , R-Cape May , said today Jones will run well ahead of his GOP opponents for the gubernatorial nomination . 
Sandman , state campaign chairman for Jones , was addressing a meeting in the Military Park Hotel , Newark , of Essex County leaders and campaign managers for Jones . 
Sandman told the gathering that reports from workers on a local level all over the state indicate that Jones will be chosen the Republican Party's nominee with the largest majority given a candidate in recent years . 
Sandman said : `` The announcement that Sen. Clifford Case Aj , has decided to spend all his available time campaigning for Mr. Mitchell is a dead giveaway . 
It is a desperate effort to prop up a sagging candidate who has proven he cannot answer any questions about New Jersey's problems . 
`` We have witnessed in this campaign the effort to project Mr. Mitchell as the image of a unity candidate from Washington . 
That failed . 
`` We are now witnessing an effort to transfer to Mr. Mitchell some of the glow of Sen. Case's candidacy of last year . 
That , too , will fail '' . 
Sandman announced the appointment of Mrs. Harriet Copeland Greenfield of 330 Woodland Ave. , Westfield , as state chairman of the Republican Women for Jones Committee . 
Mrs. Greenfield is president of the Westfield Women's Republican Club and is a Westfield county committeewoman . 
County Supervisor Weldon R. Sheets , who is a candidate for the Democratic gubernatorial nomination , today called for an end to paper ballots in those counties in the state which still use them . 
The proposal , Sheets said , represents part of his program for election reforms necessary to make democracy in New Jersey more than a `` lip service word '' . 
Sheets said that his proposed law would offer state financing aid for the purchase of voting machines , enabling counties to repay the loan over a 10-year period without interest or charge . 
Sheets added that he would ask for exclusive use of voting machines in the state by January , 1964 . 
Although he pointed out that mandatory legislation impinging on home rule is basically distasteful , he added that the vital interest in election results transcended county lines . 
The candidacy of Mayor James J. Sheeran of West Orange , for the Republican nomination for sheriff of Essex County , was supported today by Edward W. Roos , West Orange public safety commissioner . 
Sheeran , a lawyer and former FBI man is running against the Republican organization's candidate , Freeholder William MacDonald , for the vacancy left by the resignation of Neil Duffy , now a member of the State Board of Tax Appeals . 
`` My experience as public safety commissioner '' , Roos said , `` has shown me that the office of sheriff is best filled by a man with law enforcement experience , and preferably one who is a lawyer . 
Jim Sheeran fits that description '' . 
Trenton -- William J. Seidel , state fire warden in the Department of Conservation and Economic Development , has retired after 36 years of service . 
A citation from Conservation Commissioner Salvatore A. Bontempo credits his supervision with a reduction in the number of forest fires in the state . 
Seidel joined the department in 1925 as a division fire warden after graduation in 1921 from the University of Michigan with a degree in forestry and employment with private lumber companies . 
In October 1944 , he was appointed state warden and chief of the Forest Fire Section . 
Under his supervision , the state fire-fighting agency developed such techniques as plowing of fire lines and established a fleet of tractor plows and tractor units for fire fighting . 
He also expanded and modernized the radio system with a central control station . 
He introduced regular briefing sessions for district fire wardens and first aid training for section wardens . 
He is credited with setting up an annual co-operative fire prevention program in co-operation with the Red Cross and State Department of Education . 
Boonton -- Richard J. Hughes made his Morris County debut in his bid for the Democratic gubernatorial nomination here last night with a pledge `` to carry the issues to every corner of the state '' . 
He promised nearly 200 Democratic county committee members at the meeting in the Puddingstone Inn : `` When I come back here after the November election you'll think , ' You're my man -- you're the kind of governor we're glad we elected ' '' . 
He said , `` We Democrats must resolve our issues on the test of what is right and just , and not what is expedient at the time '' . 
Attacks Republicans In his only attack on the Republicans , Hughes said , `` The three Republican candidates for governor are tripping over their feet for popular slogans to win the primary . 
But we'll have a liberal , well planned , forward looking , honest platform . 
We'll not talk out of one side of our mouth in Morris County and out of the other side in Hudson . 
`` We'll take the truth to the people , and the people will like the truth and elect their candidate and party in November '' . 
He said , `` You can see signs of the Republicans' feeble attack on the Meyner administration . 
But I shall campaign on the Meyner record to meet the needs of the years ahead '' . 
He urged New Jersey to `` become a full partner in the courageous actions of President Kennedy '' . 
He called for a greater attraction of industry and a stop to the piracy of industry by Southern states , and a strong fight against discrimination in business and industry . 
`` We must keep the bloodstream of New Jersey clean '' , the former Superior Court judge said . 
`` To prevent hoodlums from infiltrating the state as they did in the Republican administration in the early 1940s '' . 
Calling the Democrats the `` party that lives , breathes and thinks for the good of the people '' , Hughes asked , `` a representative Democratic vote in the primary for a springboard toward victory in November '' . 
Hughes supported Gov. Meyner's `` Green Acres '' plan for saving large tracts of open land from the onrush of urban development . 
He said legislation for a $60 million bond issue to underwrite the program is expected to be introduced Monday . 
Conservation plan The plan will provide $45 million for purchase of open land by the state . 
The other $15 million is to be alloted to municipalities on a matching fund basis . 
Hughes said , `` This is not a plan to conquer space -- but to conserve it '' , pointing out the state population has increased 125,000 each year since 1950 . 
He said `` Morris County is rapidly changing and unless steps are taken to preserve the green areas , there will be no land left to preserve '' . 
Hughes would not comment on tax reforms or other issues in which the Republican candidates are involved . 
He said no matter what stand he takes it would be misconstrued that he was sympathetic to one or the other of the Republicans . 
`` After the primary '' , he promised , `` I'll be explicit on where I stand to bring you a strong , dynamic administration . 
I'm not afraid to tangle with the Republican nominee '' . 
Trenton -- Fifteen members of the Republican State Committee who are retiring -- voluntarily -- this year were honored yesterday by their colleagues . 
The outgoing members , whose four-year terms will expire a week after the April 18 primary election , received carved wooden elephants , complete with ivory tusks , to remember the state committee by . 
There may be other 1961 state committee retirements come April 18 , but they will be leaving by choice of the Republican voters . 
A special presentation was made to Mrs. Geraldine Thompson of Red Bank , who is stepping down after 35 years on the committee . 
She also was the original GOP national committeewoman from New Jersey in the early 1920s following adoption of the women's suffrage amendment . 
She served one four-year term on the national committee . 
Resentment welled up yesterday among Democratic district leaders and some county leaders at reports that Mayor Wagner had decided to seek a third term with Paul R. Screvane and Abraham D. Beame as running mates . 
At the same time reaction among anti-organization Democratic leaders and in the Liberal party to the Mayor's reported plan was generally favorable . 
Some anti-organization Democrats saw in the program an opportunity to end the bitter internal fight within the Democratic party that has been going on for the last three years . 
The resentment among Democratic organization leaders to the reported Wagner plan was directed particularly at the Mayor's efforts to name his own running mates without consulting the leaders . 
Some viewed this attempt as evidence that Mr. Wagner regarded himself as bigger than the party . 
Opposition reported Some Democratic district and county leaders are reported trying to induce State Controller Arthur Levitt of Brooklyn to oppose Mr. Wagner for the Mayoral nomination in the Sept. 7 Democratic primary . 
These contend there is a serious question as to whether Mr. Wagner has the confidence of the Democratic rank and file in the city . 
Their view is that last-minute changes the Mayor is proposing to make in the Democratic ticket only emphasize the weakness of his performance as Mayor . 
In an apparent effort to head off such a rival primary slate , Mr. Wagner talked by telephone yesterday with Representative Charles A. Buckley , the Bronx Democratic leader , and with Joseph T. Sharkey , the Brooklyn Democratic leader . 
Mayor visits Buckley As usual , he made no attempt to get in touch with Carmine G. De Sapio , the Manhattan leader . 
He is publicly on record as believing Mr. De Sapio should be replaced for the good of the party . 
Last night the Mayor visited Mr. Buckley at the Bronx leader's home for a discussion of the situation . 
Apparently he believes Mr. Buckley holds the key to the Democratic organization's acceptance of his choices for running mates without a struggle . 
In talks with Mr. Buckley last week in Washington , the Mayor apparently received the Bronx leader's assent to dropping Controller Lawrence E. Gerosa , who lives in the Bronx , from this year's ticket . 
But Mr. Buckley seems to have assumed he would be given the right to pick Mr. Gerosa's successor . 
Screvane and Beame hailed The Mayor declined in two interviews with reporters yesterday to confirm or deny the reports that he had decided to run and wanted Mr. Screvane , who lives in Queens , to replace Abe Stark , the incumbent , as the candidate for President of the City Council and Mr. Beame , who lives in Brooklyn , to replace Mr. Gerosa as the candidate for Controller . 
The Mayor spoke yesterday at the United Irish Counties Feis on the Hunter College Campus in the Bronx . 
After his speech , reporters asked him about the report of his political intentions , published in yesterday's New York Times . 
The Mayor said : `` It didn't come from me . 
But as I have said before , if I announce my candidacy , I will have something definite to say about running mates '' . 
Boston , June 16 -- A wave of public resentment against corruption in government is rising in Massachusetts . 
There is a tangible feeling in the air of revulsion toward politics . 
The taxi driver taking the visitor from the airport remarks that politicians in the state are `` all the same '' . 
`` It's ' See Joe , see Jim ' '' , he says . 
`` The hand is out '' . 
A political scientist writes of the growth of `` alienated voters '' , who `` believe that voting is useless because politicians or those who influence politicians are corrupt , selfish and beyond popular control . 
These voters view the political process as a secret conspiracy , the object of which is to plunder them '' . 
Corruption is hardly a recent development in the city and state that were widely identified as the locale of Edwin O'Connor's novel , `` The Last Hurrah '' . 
But there are reasons for the current spotlight on the subject . 
A succession of highly publicized scandals has aroused the public within the last year . 
Graft in the construction of highways and other public works has brought on state and Federal investigations . 
And the election of President Kennedy has attracted new attention to the ethical climate of his home state . 
A reader of the Boston newspapers can hardly escape the impression that petty chicanery , or worse , is the norm in Massachusetts public life . 
Day after day some new episode is reported . 
The state Public Works Department is accused of having spent $8,555 to build a private beach for a state judge on his waterfront property . 
An assistant attorney general is directed to investigate . 
Washington , June 18 -- Congress starts another week tomorrow with sharply contrasting forecasts for the two chambers . 
In the Senate , several bills are expected to pass without any major conflict or opposition . 
In the House , the Southern-Republican coalition is expected to make another major stand in opposition to the Administration's housing bill , while more jockeying is expected in an attempt to advance the aid-to-education bill . 
The housing bill is now in the House Rules Committee . 
It is expected to be reported out Tuesday , but this is a little uncertain . 
The panel's action depends on the return of Representative James W. Trimble , Democrat of Arkansas , who has been siding with Speaker Sam Rayburn's forces in the Rules Committee in moving bills to the floor . 
Mr. Trimble has been in the hospital but is expected back Tuesday . 
Leadership is hopeful The housing bill is expected to encounter strong opposition by the coalition of Southern Democrats and conservative Republicans . 
The Democratic leadership , however , hopes to pass it sometime this week . 
The $6,100,000,000 measure , which was passed last Monday by the Senate , provides for forty-year mortgages at low down-payments for moderate-income families . 
It also provides for funds to clear slums and help colleges build dormitories . 
The education bill appears to be temporarily stalled in the Rules Committee , where two Northern Democratic members who usually vote with the Administration are balking because of the religious controversy . 
They are James J. Delaney of Queens and Thomas P. O'Neill Jr. of Massachusetts . 
Three groups to meet What could rescue the bill would be some quick progress on a bill amending the National Defense Education Act of 1958 . 
This would provide for long-term Federal loans for construction of parochial and other private-school facilities for teaching science , languages and mathematics . 
Mr. Delaney and Mr. O'Neill are not willing to vote on the public-school measure until the defense education bill clears the House Education and Labor Committee . 
About half of all Peace Corps projects assigned to voluntary agencies will be carried out by religious groups , according to an official of the corps . 
In the $40,000,000 budget that has been submitted for Congressional approval , $26,000,000 would be spent through universities and private voluntary agencies . 
Twelve projects proposed by private groups are at the contract-negotiation stage , Gordon Boyce , director of relations with the voluntary agencies , said in a Washington interview . 
Six of these were proposed by religious groups . 
They will be for teaching , agriculture and community development in Southeast Asia , Africa , the Middle East and Latin America . 
Question raised Interviews with several church leaders have disclosed that this development has raised the question whether the Peace Corps will be able to prevent confusion for church and state over methods , means and goals . 
There are a number of ways this could happen , the churchmen pointed out , and here is an example : Last month in Ghana an American missionary discovered when he came to pay his hotel bill that the usual rate had been doubled . 
When he protested , the hotel owner said : `` Why do you worry ? 
The U. S. Government is paying for it . 
The U. S. Government pays for all its overseas workers '' . 
Missionary explains `` I don't work for the Government '' , the American said . 
`` I'm a missionary '' . 
The hotel owner shrugged . 
`` Same thing '' , he said . 
And then , some churchmen remarked , there is a more classical church-state problem : Can religious agencies use Government funds and Peace Corps personnel in their projects and still preserve the constitutional requirement on separation of church and state ? 
R. Sargent Shriver Jr. , director of the corps , is certain that they can . 
No religious group , he declared in an interview , will receive Peace Corps funds unless it forswears all proselytizing on the project it proposes . 
Moscow , June 18 -- At a gay party in the Kremlin for President Sukarno of Indonesia , Premier Khrushchev pulled out his pockets and said , beaming : `` Look , he took everything I had '' ! 
Mr. Khrushchev was jesting in the expansive mood of the successful banker . 
Indonesia is one of the twenty under-developed countries of Asia , Africa and Latin America that are receiving Soviet aid . 
The Soviet Union and other members of the Communist bloc are rapidly expanding their economic , technical and military assistance to the uncommitted nations . 
The Communist countries allocated more than $1,000,000,000 in economic aid alone last year , according to Western estimates . 
This was the biggest annual outlay since the Communist program for the under-developed countries made its modest beginning in 1954 . 
In 1960 more than 6,000 Communist technicians were present in those countries . 
United Nations , N. Y. , June 18 -- A committee of experts has recommended that a country's population be considered in the distribution of professional posts at the United Nations . 
This was disclosed today by a responsible source amid intensified efforts by the Soviet Union to gain a greater role in the staff and operation of the United Nations . 
One effect of the proposal , which puts a premium on population instead of economic strength , as in the past , would be to take jobs from European nations and give more to such countries as India . 
India is the most populous United Nations member with more than 400,000,000 inhabitants . 
The new formula for filling staff positions in the Secretariat is one of a number of recommendations made by a panel of eight in a long and detailed report . 
The report was completed after nearly eighteen months of work on the question of the organization of the United Nations . 
Formula is due this week The Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions is expected to receive the report this week . 
The jobs formula is understood to follow these lines : Each of the organization's ninety-nine members would get two professional posts , such as political affairs officer , a department head or an economist , to start . 
Each member would get one post for each 10,000,000 people in its population up to 150,000,000 people or a maximum of fifteen posts . 
Each member with a population above 150,000,000 would get one additional post for each additional 30,000,000 people up to an unspecified cut-off point . 
Geneva , June 18 -- The three leaders of Laos agreed today to begin negotiations tomorrow on forming a coalition government that would unite the war-ridden kingdom . 
The decision was made in Zurich by Prince Boun Oum , Premier of the pro-Western royal Government ; ; Prince Souvanna Phouma , leader of the nation's neutralists and recognized as Premier by the Communist bloc , and Prince Souphanouvong , head of the pro-Communist Pathet Lao forces . 
The latter two are half-brothers . 
Their joint statement was welcomed by the Western delegations who will attend tomorrow the nineteenth plenary session of the fourteen-nation conference on the future of Laos . 
An agreement among the Princes on a coalition government would ease their task , diplomats conceded . 
But no one was overly optimistic . 
Tactics studied in Geneva W. Averell Harriman of the United States , Malcolm MacDonald of Britain , Maurice Couve De Murville , France's Foreign Minister , and Howard C. Green , Canada's Minister of External Affairs , concluded , meanwhile , a round of consultations here on future tactics in the conference . 
The pace of the talks has slowed with each passing week . 
Princess Moune , Prince Souvanna Phouma's young daughter , read the Princes' statement . 
They had a two-hour luncheon together in `` an atmosphere of cordial understanding and relaxation '' , she said . 
The three Laotians agreed upon a six-point agenda for their talks , which are to last three days . 
The Princess said it was too early to say what would be decided if no agreement was reached after three days . 
To deal with principles The meetings in Zurich , the statement said , would deal only with principles that would guide the three factors in their search for a coalition Government . 
Appointment of William S. Pfaff Jr. , 41 , as promotion manager of The Times-Picayune Publishing Company was announced Saturday by John F. Tims , president of the company . 
Pfaff succeeds Martin Burke , who resigned . 
The new promotion manager has been employed by the company since January , 1946 , as a commercial artist in the advertising department . 
He is a native of New Orleans and attended Allen Elementary school , Fortier High school and Soule business college . 
From June , 1942 , until December , 1945 , Pfaff served in the Army Air Corps . 
While in the service he attended radio school at Scott Field in Belleville , Ill. . 
Before entering the service , Pfaff for five years did clerical work with a general merchandising and wholesale firm in New Orleans . 
He is married to the former Audrey Knecht and has a daughter , Karol , 13 . 
They reside at 4911 Miles Dr. . 
Washington -- Thousands of bleacher-type seats are being erected along Pennsylvania Avenue between the Capitol and the White House for the big inaugural parade on Jan. 20 . 
Assuming the weather is halfway decent that day , hundreds of thousands of persons will mass along this thoroughfare as President John F. Kennedy and retiring President Dwight D. Eisenhower leave Capitol Hill following the oath-taking ceremonies and ride down this historic ceremonial route . 
Pennsylvania Avenue , named for one of the original 13 states , perhaps is not the most impressive street in the District of Columbia from a commercial standpoint . 
But from a historic viewpoint none can approach it . 
Many buildings Within view of the avenue are some of the United States government's tremendous buildings , plus shrines and monuments . 
Of course , 1600 Pennsylvania , the White House , is the most famous address of the free world . 
Within an easy walk from Capitol Hill where Pennsylvania Avenue comes together with Constitution Avenue , begins a series of great federal buildings , some a block long and all about seven-stories high . 
Great chapters of history have been recorded along the avenue , now about 169 years old . 
In the early spring of 1913 a few hundred thousand persons turned out to watch 5000 women parade . 
They were the suffragettes and they wanted to vote . 
In the 1920 presidential election they had that right and many of them did vote for the first time . 
Seats on square Along this avenue which saw marching soldiers from the War Between the States returning in 1865 is the National Archives building where hundreds of thousands of this country's most valuable records are kept . 
Also the department of justice building is located where J. Edgar Hoover presides over the federal bureau of investigation . 
Street car tracks run down the center of Pennsylvania , powered with lines that are underground . 
Many spectators will be occupying seats and vantage points bordering Lafayette Square , opposite the White House . 
In this historic square are several statues , but the one that stands out over the others is that of Gen. Andrew Jackson , hero of the Battle of New Orleans . 
Moving past the presidential viewing stand and Lafayette Square will be at least 40 marching units . 
About 16,000 military members of all branches of the armed forces will take part in the parade . 
Division one of the parade will be the service academies . 
Division two will include the representations of Massachusetts and Texas , the respective states of the President and of Vice-President L. B. Johnson . 
Then will come nine other states in the order of their admission to the union . 
Division three will be headed by the Marines followed by 12 states ; ; division four will be headed by the Navy , followed by 11 states ; ; division five , by the Air Force followed by 11 states . 
Division six will be headed by the Coast Guard , followed by the reserve forces of all services , five states , Puerto Rico , the Virgin Islands , Guam , American Samoa , the trust territories and the Canal Zone . 
Jackson , Miss. -- What does 1961 offer in political and governmental developments in Mississippi ? 
Even for those who have been observing the political scene a long time , no script from the past is worth very much in gazing into the state's immediate political future . 
This is largely because of the unpredictability of the man who operates the helm of the state government and is the elected leader of its two million inhabitants -- Gov. Ross Barnett . 
Barnett , who came into office with no previous experience in public administration , has surrounded himself with confusion which not only keeps his foes guessing but his friends as well . 
Consequently , it is uncertain after nearly 12 months in office just which direction the Barnett administration will take in the coming year . 
Could be scramble Some predict the administration will settle down during 1961 and iron out the rough edges which it has had thus far . 
The builtin headache of the Barnett regime thus far has been the steady stream of job-seekers and others who feel they were given commitments by Barnett at some stage of his eight-year quest for the governor's office . 
There are many who predict that should Barnett decide to call the Legislature back into special session , it will really throw his administration into a scramble . 
Certainly nobody will predict that the next time the lawmakers come back together Barnett will be able to enjoy a re-enactment of the strange but successful `` honeymoon '' he had in the 1960 legislative session . 
If Barnett doesn't call a special session in 1961 , it will be the first year in the last decade that the Legislature has not met in regular or special session . 
The odds favor a special session , more than likely early in the year . 
Districts issue Legislators always get restless for a special session ( whether for the companionship or the $22.50 per diem is not certain ) and if they start agitating . 
Barnett is not expected to be able to withstand the pressure . 
The issue which may make it necessary to have a session is the highly sensitive problem of cutting the state's congressional districts from six to five to eliminate one congressional seat . 
With eyes focused on the third congressional district , the historic Delta district , and Congressman Frank E. Smith as the one most likely to go , the redistricting battle will put to a test the longstanding power which lawmakers from the Delta have held in the Legislature . 
Mississippi's relations with the national Democratic party will be at a crossroads during 1961 , with the first Democratic president in eight years in the White House . 
Split badly during the recent presidential election into almost equally divided camps of party loyalists and independents , the Democratic party in Mississippi is currently a wreck . 
And there has been no effort since the election to pull it back together . 
Future clouded Barnett , as the titular head of the Democratic party , apparently must make the move to reestablish relations with the national Democratic party or see a movement come from the loyalist ranks to completely bypass him as a party functionary . 
With a Democratic administration , party patronage would normally begin to flow to Mississippi if it had held its Democratic solidarity in the November election . 
Now , the picture is clouded , and even US Sens. James O. Eastland and John C. Stennis , who remained loyal to the ticket , are uncertain of their status . 
Reports are that it is more than probable that the four congressmen from Mississippi who did not support the party ticket will be stripped of the usual patronage which flows to congressmen . 
Baton Rouge , La. -- The Gov. Jimmie H. Davis administration appears to face a difficult year in 1961 , with the governor's theme of peace and harmony subjected to severe stresses . 
The year will probably start out with segregation still the most troublesome issue . 
But it might give way shortly to another vexing issue -- that of finances in state government . 
The transition from segregation to finances might already be in progress , in the form of an administration proposal to hike the state sales tax from 2 per cent to 3 per cent . 
The administration has said the sales tax proposal is merely part of the segregation strategy , since the revenues from the increase would be dedicated to a grant in aid program . 
But the tardiness of the administration in making the dedication has caused legislators to suspect the tax bill was related more directly to an over-all shortage of cash than to segregation . 
Legislators weary Indeed , the administration's curious position on the sales tax was a major factor in contributing to its defeat . 
The administration could not say why $28 million was needed for a grant-in-aid program . 
The effectiveness of the governor in clearing up some of the inconsistencies revolving about the sales tax bill may play a part in determining whether it can muster the required two-thirds vote . 
The tax bill will be up for reconsideration Wednesday in the House when the Legislature reconvenes . 
Davis may use the tax bill as a means to effect a transition from special sessions of the Legislature to normalcy . 
If it fails to pass , he can throw up his hands and say the Legislature would not support him in his efforts to prevent integration . 
He could terminate special sessions of the Legislature . 
Actually , Davis would have to toss in the towel soon anyway . 
Many legislators are already weary and frustrated over the so-far losing battle to block token integration . 
This is not the sort of thing most politicos would care to acknowledge publicly . 
They would like to convey the notion something is being done , even though it is something they know to be ineffectual . 
Underlying concern Passage of the sales tax measure would also give Davis the means to effect a transition . 
He could tell the Legislature they had provided the needed funds to carry on the battle . 
Then he could tell them to go home , while the administration continued to wage the battle with the $28 million in extra revenues the sales tax measure would bring in over an eight months period . 
It is difficult to be certain how the administration views that $28 million , since the views of one leader may not be the same as the views of another one . 
But if the administration should find it does not need the $28 million for a grant-in-aid program , a not unlikely conclusion , it could very well seek a way to use the money for other purposes . 
This would be in perfect consonance with the underlying concern in the administration -- the shortage of cash . 
It could become an acute problem in the coming fiscal year . 
If the administration does not succeed in passing the sales tax bill , or any other tax bill , it could very well be faced this spring at the fiscal session of the Legislature with an interesting dilemma . 
Since the constitution forbids introduction of a tax bill at a fiscal session , the administration will either have to cut down expenses or inflate its estimates of anticipated revenues . 
Constant problem In either case , it could call a special session of the Legislature later in 1961 to make another stab at raising additional revenues through a tax raiser . 
The prospect of cutting back spending is an unpleasant one for any governor . 
It is one that most try to avoid , as long as they can see an alternative approach to the problem . 
But if all alternatives should be clearly blocked off , it can be expected the Davis administration will take steps to trim spending at the spring session of the state Legislature . 
This might be done to arouse those who have been squeezed out by the trims to exert pressure on the Legislature , so it would be more receptive to a tax proposal later in the year . 
A constant problem confronting Davis on any proposals for new taxes will be the charge by his foes that he has not tried to economize . 
Any tax bill also will revive allegations that some of his followers have been using their administration affiliations imprudently to profit themselves . 
The new year might see some house-cleaning , either genuine or token , depending upon developments , to give Davis an opportunity to combat some of these criticisms . 
City Controller Alexander Hemphill charged Tuesday that the bids on the Frankford Elevated repair project were rigged to the advantage of a private contracting company which had `` an inside track '' with the city . 
Estimates of the city's loss in the $344,000 job have ranged as high as $200,000 . 
Shortcuts unnoticed Hemphill said that the Hughes Steel Erection Co. contracted to do the work at an impossibly low cost with a bid that was far less than the `` legitimate '' bids of competing contractors . 
The Hughes concern then took `` shortcuts '' on the project but got paid anyway , Hemphill said . 
The Controller's charge of rigging was the latest development in an investigation which also brought these disclosures Tuesday : The city has sued for the full amount of the $172,400 performance bond covering the contract . 
The Philadelphia Transportation Co. is investigating the part its organization played in reviewing the project . 
The signature of Harold V. Varani , former director of architecture and engineering in the Department of Public Property , appeared on payment vouchers certifying work on the project . 
Varani has been fired on charges of accepting gifts from the contractor . 
Managing Director Donald C. Wagner has agreed to cooperate fully with Hemphill after a period of sharp disagreement on the matter . 
The announcement that the city would sue for recovery on the performance bond was made by City Solicitor David Berger at a press conference following a meeting in the morning with Wagner and other officials of the city and the PTC as well as representatives of an engineering firm that was pulled off the El project before its completion in 1959 . 
Concern bankrupt The Hughes company and the Consolidated Industries , Inc. , both of 3646 N. 2d St. , filed for reorganization under the Federal bankruptcy law . 
On Monday , the Hughes concern was formally declared bankrupt after its directors indicated they could not draw up a plan for reorganization . 
Business relations between the companies and city have been under investigation by Hemphill and District Attorney James C. Crumlish , Jr. . 
Intervenes in case The suit was filed later in the day in Common Pleas Court 7 against the Hughes company and two bonding firms . 
Travelers Indemnity Co. and the Continental Casualty Co. . 
At Berger's direction , the city also intervened in the Hughes bankruptcy case in U. S. District Court in a move preliminary to filing a claim there . 
`` I am taking the position that the contract was clearly violated '' , Berger said . 
The contract violations mostly involve failure to perform rehabilitation work on expansion joints along the El track . 
The contract called for overhauling of 102 joints . 
The city paid for work on 75 , of which no more than 21 were repaired , Hemphill charged . 
Wide range in bids Hemphill said the Hughes concern contracted to do the repairs at a cost of $500 for each joint . 
The bid from A. Belanger and Sons of Cambridge , Mass. , which listed the same officers as Hughes , was $600 per joint . 
But , Hemphill added , bids from other contractors ranged from $2400 to $3100 per joint . 
Berger's decision to sue for the full amount of the performance bond was questioned by Wagner in the morning press conference . 
Wagner said the city paid only $37,500 to the Hughes company . 
`` We won't know the full amount until we get a full report '' , Wagner said . 
`` We can claim on the maximum amount of the bond '' , Berger said . 
Wagner replied , `` Can't you just see the headline : ' City Hooked for $172,000 ' '' ? 
' know enough to sue ' Berger insisted that `` we know enough to sue for the full amount '' . 
Douglas M. Pratt , president of the PTC , who attended the meeting , said the transit company is reviewing the work on the El . 
`` We want to find out who knew about it '' , Pratt said . 
`` Certain people must have known about it '' . 
`` The PTC is investigating the whole matter '' , Pratt said . 
Samuel D. Goodis , representing the Philadelphia Hotel Association , objected on Tuesday to a proposed boost by the city in licensing fees , saying that occupancy rates in major hotels here ranged from 48 to 74 percent last year . 
Goodis voiced his objection before City Council's Finance Committee . 
For hotels with 1000 rooms , the increased license fee would mean an expense of $5000 a year , Goodis said . 
Testifies at hearing His testimony came during a hearing on a bill raising fees for a wide variety of licenses , permits and city services . 
The new fees are expected to raise an additional $740,000 in the remainder of 1961 and $2,330,000 more a year after that . 
The ordinance would increase the fee for rooming houses , hotels and multi-family dwellings to $5 a room . 
The cost of a license now is $2 , with an annual renewal fee of $1 . 
Goodis said that single rooms account for 95 percent of the accomodations in some hotels . 
Revenue estimated The city expects the higher rooming house , hotel and apartment house fees to bring in an additional $457,000 a year . 
The increase also was opposed by Leonard Kaplan , spokesman for the Home Builders Association of Philadelphia , on behalf of association members who operate apartment houses . 
A proposal to raise dog license fees drew an objection from Councilwoman Virginia Knauer , who formerly raised pedigreed dogs . 
The ordinance would increase fees from $1 for males and $2 for females to a flat $5 a dog . 
Commissioner replies Mrs. Knauer said she did not think dog owners should be penalized for the city's services to animal care . 
In reply , Deputy Police Commissioner Howard R. Leary said that the city spends more than $115,000 annually to license and regulate dogs but collects only $43,000 in fees . 
He reported that the city's contributions for animal care included $67,000 to the Women's S.P.C.A. ; ; $15,000 to pay six policemen assigned as dog catchers and $15,000 to investigate dog bites . 
Backs higher fees City Finance Director Richard J. McConnell indorsed the higher fees , which , he said , had been under study for more than a year . 
The city is not adequately compensated for the services covered by the fees , he said . 
The new fee schedule also was supported by Commissioner of Licenses and Inspections Barnet Lieberman and Health Commissioner Eugene A. Gillis . 
Petitions asking for a jail term for Norristown attorney Julian W. Barnard will be presented to the Montgomery County Court Friday , it was disclosed Tuesday by Horace A. Davenport , counsel for the widow of the man killed last Nov. 1 by Barnard's hit-run car . 
The petitions will be presented in open court to President Judge William F. Dannehower , Davenport said . 
Barnard , who pleaded no defense to manslaughter and hit-run charges , was fined $500 by Judge Warren K. Hess , and placed on two years' probation providing he does not drive during that time . 
He was caught driving the day after the sentence was pronounced and given a warning . 
Victim of the accident was Robert Lee Stansbery , 39 . 
His widow started the circulation of petitions after Barnard was reprimanded for violating the probation . 
The City Planning Commission on Tuesday approved agreements between two redevelopers and the Redevelopment Authority for the purchase of land in the $300,000,000 Eastwick Redevelopment Area project . 
The commission also approved a novel plan that would eliminate traffic hazards for pedestrians in the project . 
One of the agreements calls for the New Eastwick Corp. to purchase a 1311 acre tract for $12,192,865 . 
The tract is bounded by Island Ave. , Dicks Ave. , 61st St. , and Eastwick Ave. . 
Four parks planned It is designated as Stage 1 Residential on the Redevelopment Authority's master plan and will feature row houses , garden apartments , four small parks , schools , churches , a shopping center and several small clusters of stores . 
The corporation was formed by the Reynolds Metal Co. and the Samuel A. and Henry A. Berger firm , a Philadelphia builder , for work in the project . 
The second agreement permits the authority to sell a 520-acre tract west of Stage 1 Residential to Philadelphia Builders Eastwick Corp. , a firm composed of 10 Philadelphia area builders , which is interested in developing part of the project . 
Would bar vehicles The plan for eliminating traffic hazards for pedestrians was developed by Dr. Constantinos A. Doxiadis , former Minister of Reconstruction in Greece and a consulting planner for the New Eastwick Corp. . 
The plan calls for dividing the project into 16 sectors which would be barred to vehicular traffic . 
It provides for a series of landscaped walkways and a central esplanade that would eventually run through the center of the entire two-and-a-half-mile length of the project . 
The esplanade eliminates Grovers Ave. , which on original plans ran through the center of the development . 
The esplanade would feature pedestrian bridges over roads in the project . 
Kansas City , Mo. , Feb. 9 ( UPI ) -- The president of the Kansas City local of the International Association of Fire Fighters was severly injured today when a bomb tore his car apart as he left home for work . 
Battalion Chief Stanton M. Gladden , 42 , the central figure in a representation dispute between the fire fighters association and the teamsters union , suffered multiple fractures of both ankles . 
He was in Baptist Memorial hospital . 
Ignition sets off blast The battalion chief said he had just gotten into his 1958 model automobile to move it from the driveway of his home so that he could take his other car to work . 
`` I'd just turned on the ignition when there was a big flash and I was lying on the driveway '' , he said . 
Gladden's wife and two of his sons , John , 17 , and Jim , 13 , were inside the house . 
The younger boy said the blast knocked him out of bed and against the wall . 
Hood flies over house The explosion sent the hood of the car flying over the roof of the house . 
The left front wheel landed 100 feet away . 
Police laboratory technicians said the explosive device , containing either TNT or nitroglycerine , was apparently placed under the left front wheel . 
It was first believed the bomb was rigged to the car's starter . 
Gladden had been the target of threatening telephone calls in recent months and reportedly received one last night . 
The fire department here has been torn for months by dissension involving top personnel and the fight between the fire fighters association and the teamsters union . 
Led fight on teamsters Gladden has been an outspoken critic of the present city administration and led his union's battle against the teamsters , which began organizing city firemen in 1959 . 
The fire fighters association here offered a $5,000 reward for information leading to the arrest of the person or persons responsible for the bombing . 
A $500 reward was offered by the association's local in Kansas City , Kas. . 
The association said it would post 24 hour guards at Gladden's home and at those of James Mining and Eugene Shiflett . 
Mining is secretary-treasurer of the local and Shiflett is a member of its executive committee . 
Both have been active in the association . 
Ankara , Turkey , Oct. 24 ( AP ) -- Turkish political leaders bowed today to military pressure and agreed to form an emergency national front government with Gen. Cemal Gursel as president . 
An agreement between the leaders of four parties which contested indecisive elections on Oct. 15 was reached after almost 18 hours of political bargaining under the threat of an army coup d'etat . 
By-passing the military junta which has ruled Turkey since the overthrow of Premier Adnan Menderes 17 months ago , the army general staff , led by Gen. Cedvet Sunay , had set a deadline for the parties to join in a national coalition government . 
The army leaders threatened to form a new military government if the parties failed to sign an eight point protocol agreeing on Gen. Gursel as president . 
Gen. Gursel has headed the military junta the last 17 months . 
The military also had demanded pledges that there would be no changes in the laws passed by the junta and no leaders of the Menderes regime now in prison would be pardoned . 
Party leaders came out of the final meeting apparently satisfied and stated that complete agreement had been reached on a solution to the crisis created by the elections which left no party with enough strength to form a government on its own . 
Vincent G. Ierulli has been appointed temporary assistant district attorney , it was announced Monday by Charles E. Raymond , District Attorney . 
Ierulli will replace Desmond D. Connall who has been called to active military service but is expected back on the job by March 31 . 
Ierulli , 29 , has been practicing in Portland since November , 1959 . 
He is a graduate of Portland University and the Northwestern College of Law . 
He is married and the father of three children . 
Helping foreign countries to build a sound political structure is more important than aiding them economically , E. M. Martin , assistant secretary of state for economic affairs told members of the World Affairs Council Monday night . 
Martin , who has been in office in Washington , D. C. , for 13 months spoke at the council's annual meeting at the Multnomah Hotel . 
He told some 350 persons that the United States' challenge was to help countries build their own societies their own ways , following their own paths . 
`` We must persuade them to enjoy a way of life which , if not identical , is congenial with ours '' , he said but adding that if they do not develop the kind of society they themselves want it will lack ritiuality and loyalty . 
Patience needed Insuring that the countries have a freedom of choice , he said , was the biggest detriment to the Soviet Union . 
He cited East Germany where after 15 years of Soviet rule it has become necessary to build a wall to keep the people in , and added , `` so long as people rebel , we must not give up '' . 
Martin called for patience on the part of Americans . 
`` The countries are trying to build in a decade the kind of society we took a century to build '' , he said . 
By leaving our doors open the United States gives other peoples the opportunity to see us and to compare , he said . 
Individual help best `` We have no reason to fear failure , but we must be extraordinarily patient '' , the assistant secretary said . 
Economically , Martin said , the United States could best help foreign countries by helping them help themselves . 
Private business is more effective than government aid , he explained , because individuals are able to work with the people themselves . 
The United States must plan to absorb the exported goods of the country , at what he termed a `` social cost '' . 
Martin said the government has been working to establish firmer prices on primary products which may involve the total income of one country . 
The Portland school board was asked Monday to take a positive stand towards developing and coordinating with Portland's civil defense more plans for the city's schools in event of attack . 
But there seemed to be some difference of opinion as to how far the board should go , and whose advice it should follow . 
The board members , after hearing the coordination plea from Mrs. Ralph H. Molvar , 1409 SW Maplecrest Dr. , said they thought they had already been cooperating . 
Chairman C. Richard Mears pointed out that perhaps this was not strictly a school board problem , in case of atomic attack , but that the board would cooperate so far as possible to get the children to where the parents wanted them to go . 
Dr. Melvin W. Barnes , superintendent , said he thought the schools were waiting for some leadership , perhaps on the national level , to make sure that whatever steps of planning they took would `` be more fruitful '' , and that he had found that other school districts were not as far along in their planning as this district . 
`` Los Angeles has said they would send the children to their homes in case of disaster '' , he said . 
`` Nobody really expects to evacuate . 
I think everybody is agreed that we need to hear some voice on the national level that would make some sense and in which we would have some confidence in following . 
Mrs. Molvar , who kept reiterating her request that they `` please take a stand '' , said , `` We must have faith in somebody -- on the local level , and it wouldn't be possible for everyone to rush to a school to get their children '' . 
Dr. Barnes said that there seemed to be feeling that evacuation plans , even for a high school where there were lots of cars `` might not be realistic and would not work '' . 
Mrs. Molvar asked again that the board join in taking a stand in keeping with Jack Lowe's program . 
The board said it thought it had gone as far as instructed so far and asked for more information to be brought at the next meeting . 
It was generally agreed that the subject was important and the board should be informed on what was done , is going to be done and what it thought should be done . 
Salem ( AP ) -- The statewide meeting of war mothers Tuesday in Salem will hear a greeting from Gov. Mark Hatfield . 
Hatfield also is scheduled to hold a public United Nations Day reception in the state capitol on Tuesday . 
His schedule calls for a noon speech Monday in Eugene at the Emerald Empire Kiwanis Club . 
He will speak to Willamette University Young Republicans Thursday night in Salem . 
On Friday he will go to Portland for the swearing in of Dean Bryson as Multnomah County Circuit Judge . 
He will attend a meeting of the Republican State Central Committee Saturday in Portland and see the Washington-Oregon football game . 
Beaverton School District No. 48 board members examined blueprints and specifications for two proposed junior high schools at a Monday night workshop session . 
A bond issue which would have provided some $3.5 million for construction of the two 900-student schools was defeated by district voters in January . 
Last week the board , by a 4 to 3 vote , decided to ask voters whether they prefer the 6-3-3 ( junior high school ) system or the 8-4 system . 
Board members indicated Monday night this would be done by an advisory poll to be taken on Nov. 15 , the same date as a $581,000 bond election for the construction of three new elementary schools . 
Secretary of Labor Arthur Goldberg will speak Sunday night at the Masonic Temple at a $25-a-plate dinner honoring Sen. Wayne L. Morse , Aj . 
The dinner is sponsored by organized labor and is scheduled for 7 p.m. . 
Secretary Goldberg and Sen. Morse will hold a joint press conference at the Roosevelt Hotel at 4:30 p.m. Sunday , Blaine Whipple , executive secretary of the Democratic Party of Oregon , reported Tuesday . 
Other speakers for the fund-raising dinner include Reps. Edith Green and Al Ullman , Labor Commissioner Norman Nilsen and Mayor Terry Schrunk , all Democrats . 
Oak Grove ( special ) -- Three positions on the Oak Lodge Water district board of directors have attracted 11 candidates . 
The election will be Dec. 4 from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. . 
Polls will be in the water office . 
Incumbent Richard Salter seeks re-election and is opposed by Donald Huffman for the five-year term . 
Incumbent William Brod is opposed in his re-election bid by Barbara Njust , Miles C. Bubenik and Frank Lee . 
Five candidates seek the place vacated by Secretary Hugh G. Stout . 
Seeking this two-year term are James Culbertson , Dwight M. Steeves , James C. Piersee , W.M. Sexton and Theodore W. Heitschmidt . 
A stronger stand on their beliefs and a firmer grasp on their future were taken Friday by delegates to the 29th general council of the Assemblies of God , in session at the Memorial Coliseum . 
The council revised , in an effort to strengthen , the denomination's 16 basic beliefs adopted in 1966 . 
The changes , unanimously adopted , were felt necessary in the face of modern trends away from the Bible . 
The council agreed it should more firmly state its belief in and dependence on the Bible . 
At the adoption , the Rev. T. F. Zimmerman , general superintendent , commented , `` The Assemblies of God has been a bulwark for fundamentalism in these modern days and has , without compromise , stood for the great truths of the Bible for which men in the past have been willing to give their lives '' . 
New point added Many changes involved minor editing and clarification ; ; however , the first belief stood for entire revision with a new third point added to the list . 
The first of 16 beliefs of the denomination , now reads : `` The scriptures , both Old and New Testament , are verbally inspired of God and are the revelation of God to man , the infallible , authoritative rule of faith and conduct '' . 
The third belief , in six points , emphasizes the Diety of the Lord Jesus Christ , and : -- emphasizes the Virgin birth -- the sinless life of Christ -- His miracles -- His substitutionary work on the cross -- His bodily resurrection from the dead -- and His exaltation to the right hand of God . 
Super again elected Friday afternoon the Rev. T. F. Zimmerman was reelected for his second consecutive two-year term as general superintendent of Assemblies of God . 
His offices are in Springfield , Mo. . 
Election came on the nominating ballot . 
Friday night the delegates heard the need for their forthcoming program , `` Breakthrough '' scheduled to fill the churches for the next two years . 
In his opening address Wednesday the Rev. Mr. Zimmerman , urged the delegates to consider a 10-year expansion program , with `` Breakthrough '' the theme for the first two years . 
The Rev. R. L. Brandt , national secretary of the home missions department , stressed the need for the first two years' work . 
`` Surveys show that one out of three Americans has vital contact with the church . 
This means that more than 100 million have no vital touch with the church or religious life '' , he told delegates Friday . 
Church loses pace Talking of the rapid population growth ( upwards of 12,000 babies born daily ) with an immigrant entering the United States every 1-1/2 minutes , he said `` our organization has not been keeping pace with this challenge '' . 
`` In 35 years we have opened 7,000 churches '' , the Rev. Mr. Brandt said , adding that the denomination had a national goal of one church for every 10,000 persons . 
`` In this light we need 1,000 churches in Illinois , where we have 200 ; ; 800 in Southern New England , we have 60 ; ; we need 100 in Rhode Island , we have none '' , he said . 
To step up the denomination's program , the Rev. Mr. Brandt suggested the vision of 8,000 new Assemblies of God churches in the next 10 years . 
To accomplish this would necessitate some changes in methods , he said . 
' church meets change ' `` The church's ability to change her methods is going to determine her ability to meet the challenge of this hour '' . 
A capsule view of proposed plans includes : -- Encouraging by every means , all existing Assemblies of God churches to start new churches . 
-- Engaging mature , experienced men to pioneer or open new churches in strategic population centers . 
-- Surrounding pioneer pastors with vocational volunteers ( laymen , who will be urged to move into the area of new churches in the interest of lending their support to the new project ) . 
-- Arranging for ministerial graduates to spend from 6-12 months as apprentices in well-established churches . 
U.S. Dist. Judge Charles L. Powell denied all motions made by defense attorneys Monday in Portland's insurance fraud trial . 
Denials were of motions of dismissal , continuance , mistrial , separate trial , acquittal , striking of testimony and directed verdict . 
In denying motions for dismissal , Judge Powell stated that mass trials have been upheld as proper in other courts and that `` a person may join a conspiracy without knowing who all of the conspirators are '' . 
Attorney Dwight L. Schwab , in behalf of defendant Philip Weinstein , argued there is no evidence linking Weinstein to the conspiracy , but Judge Powell declared this is a matter for the jury to decide . 
Proof lack charged Schwab also declared there is no proof of Weinstein's entering a conspiracy to use the U.S. mails to defraud , to which federal prosecutor A. Lawrence Burbank replied : `` It is not necessary that a defendant actually have conpired to use the U.S. mails to defraud as long as there is evidence of a conspiracy , and the mails were then used to carry it out '' . 
In the afternoon , defense attorneys began the presentation of their cases with opening statements , some of which had been deferred until after the government had called witnesses and presented its case . 
Miami , Fla. , March 17 -- The Orioles tonight retained the distinction of being the only winless team among the eighteen Major-League clubs as they dropped their sixth straight spring exhibition decision , this one to the Kansas City Athletics by a score of 5 to 3 . 
Indications as late as the top of the sixth were that the Birds were to end their victory draught as they coasted along with a 3-to-o advantage . 
Siebern hits homer Over the first five frames , Jack Fisher , the big righthander who figures to be in the middle of Oriole plans for a drive on the 1961 American League pennant , held the A's scoreless while yielding three scattered hits . 
Then Dick Hyde , submarine-ball hurler , entered the contest and only five batters needed to face him before there existed a 3-to-3 deadlock . 
A two-run homer by Norm Siebern and a solo blast by Bill Tuttle tied the game , and single runs in the eighth and ninth gave the Athletics their fifth victory in eight starts . 
House throws wild With one down in the eighth , Marv Throneberry drew a walk and stole second as Hyde fanned Tuttle . 
Catcher Frank House's throw in an effort to nab Throneberry was wide and in the dirt . 
Then Heywood Sullivan , Kansas City catcher , singled up the middle and Throneberry was across with what proved to be the winning run . 
Rookie southpaw George Stepanovich relieved Hyde at the start of the ninth and gave up the A's fifth tally on a walk to second baseman Dick Howser , a wild pitch , and Frank Cipriani's single under Shortstop Jerry Adair's glove into center . 
The Orioles once again performed at the plate in powderpuff fashion , gathering only seven blows off the offerings of three Kansas City pitchers . 
Three were doubles , Brooks Robinson getting a pair and Marv Breeding one . 
Hartman impressive Bill Kunkel , Bob Hartman and Ed Keegan did the mound chores for the club down from West Palm Beach to play the game before 767 paying customers in Miami Stadium . 
The Birds got five hits and all three of their runs off Kunkel before Hartman took over in the top of the fourth . 
Hartman , purchased by the A's from the Milwaukee Braves last fall , allowed no hits in his scoreless three-inning appearance , and merited the triumph . 
Keegan , a 6-foot-3-inch 158-pounder , gave up the Orioles' last two safeties over the final three frames , escaping a load of trouble in the ninth when the Birds threatened but failed to tally . 
Robinson doubles again In the ninth , Robinson led off with his second double of the night , a blast off the fence 375 feet deep into left . 
Whitey Herzog , performing in right as the Orioles fielded possibly their strongest team of the spring , worked Keegan for a base on balls . 
Then three consecutive pinch-hitters failed to produce . 
Pete Ward was sent in for House and , after failing in a bunt attempt , popped to Howser on the grass back of short . 
John Powell , batting for Adair , fanned after fouling off two 2-and-2 pitches , and Buddy Barker , up for Stepanovich , bounced out sharply to Jerry Lumpe at second to end the 2-hour-and-27-minute contest . 
The Orioles got a run in the first inning when Breeding , along with Robinson , the two Birds who got a pair of hits , doubled to right center , moved to third on Russ Snyder's single to right and crossed on Kunkel's wild pitch into the dirt in front of the plate . 
The Flock added a pair of tallies in the third on three straight hits after two were out . 
Jackie Brandt singled deep into the hole at short to start the rally . 
Lumpe errs Jim Gentile bounced a hard shot off Kunkel's glove and beat it out for a single , and when Lumpe grabbed the ball and threw it over first baseman Throneberry's head Brandt took third and Gentile second on the error . 
Then Robinson slammed a long double to left center to score both runners . 
When Robinson tried to stretch his blow into a triple , he was cut down in a close play at third , Tuttle to Andy Carey . 
The detailed rundown on the Kansas City scoring in the sixth went like this : Lumpe worked a walk as the first batter to face Hyde and romped around as Siebern blasted Hyde's next toss 415 feet over the scoreboard in right center . 
Carey Singles Carey singled on a slow-bouncing ball to short which Robinson cut across to field and threw wide to first . 
It was ruled a difficult chance and a hit . 
Then Throneberry rapped into a fast double play . 
Breeding to Adair to Gentile , setting up Tuttle's 390-foot homer over the wall in left center . 
If the Orioles are to break their losing streak within the next two days , it will have to be at the expense of the American League champion New York Yankees , who come in here tomorrow for a night game and a single test Sunday afternoon . 
Miami , Fla. , March 17 -- The flavor of Baltimore's Florida Grapefruit League news ripened considerably late today when the Orioles were advised that Ron Hansen has fulfilled his obligations under the Army's military training program and is ready for belated spring training . 
Hansen , who slugged the 1960 Oriole high of 22 homers and drove in 86 runs on a freshman average , completes the Birds' spring squad at 49 players . 
The big , 22-year-old shortstop , the 1960 American league `` rookie-of-the-year '' , flew here late this afternoon from Baltimore , signed his contract for an estimated $15,000 and was a spectator at tonight's 5-to-3 loss to Kansas City -- the winless Birds' sixth setback in a row . 
15 pounds lighter The 6-foot 3-inch Hansen checked in close to 200 pounds , 15 pounds lighter than his reporting weight last spring . 
He hopes to melt off an additional eight pounds before the Flock breaks camp three weeks hence . 
When he was inducted into the Army at Fort Knox , Ky. , Hansen's weight had dropped to 180 -- `` too light for me to be at my best '' he said . 
`` I feel good physically '' , Hansen added , `` but I think I'll move better carrying a little less weight than I'm carrying now '' . 
Seeks `` improved fielding '' The rangy , Albany ( Cal. ) native , a surprise slugging sensation for the Flock last year as well as a defensive whiz , set `` improved fielding '' as his 1961 goal . 
`` I think I can do a better job with the glove , now that I know the hitters around the league a little better '' , he said . 
Hansen will engage in his first workout at Miami Stadium prior to the opening tomorrow night of a two-game weekend series with the New York Yankees . 
Skinny Brown and Hoyt Wilhelm , the Flock's veteran knuckleball specialists , are slated to oppose the American League champions in tomorrow's 8 P.M. contest . 
Duren , Sheldon on hill Ryne Duren and Roland Sheldon , a rookie righthander who posted a 15-1 record last year for the Yanks' Auburn ( N.Y. ) farm club of the Class-D New York-Pennsylvania League , are the probable rival pitchers . 
Twenty-one-year-old Milt Pappas and Jerry Walker , 22 , are scheduled to share the Oriole mound chores against the Bombers' Art Ditmar in Sunday's 2 P.M. encounter . 
Ralph Houk , successor to Casey Stengel at the Yankee helm , plans to bring the entire New York squad here from St. Petersburg , including Joe Dimaggio and large crowds are anticipated for both weekend games . 
The famed Yankee Clipper , now retired , has been assisting as a batting coach . 
Squad cut near Pitcher Steve Barber joined the club one week ago after completing his hitch under the Army's accelerated wintertime military course , also at Fort Knox , Ky. . 
The 22-year-old southpaw enlisted earlier last fall than did Hansen . 
Baltimore's bulky spring-training contingent now gradually will be reduced as Manager Paul Richards and his coaches seek to trim it down to a more streamlined and workable unit . 
`` Take a ride on this one '' , Brooks Robinson greeted Hansen as the Bird third sacker grabbed a bat , headed for the plate and bounced a third-inning two-run double off the left-centerfield wall tonight . 
It was the first of two doubles by Robinson , who was in a mood to celebrate . 
Just before game time , Robinson's pretty wife , Connie informed him that an addition to the family can be expected late next summer . 
Unfortunately , Brooks's teammates were not in such festive mood as the Orioles expired before the seven-hit pitching of three Kansas City rookie hurlers . 
Hansen arrived just before nightfall , two hours late , in company with Lee MacPhail ; ; J. A. W. Iglehart , chairman of the Oriole board of directors , and Public Relations Director Jack Dunn . 
Their flight was delayed , Dunn said , when a boarding ramp inflicted some minor damage to the wing of the plane . 
Ex-Oriole Clint Courtney , now catching for the A's is all for the American League's 1961 expansion to the West Coast . 
`` But they shouldda brought in Tokyo , too '' , added Old Scrapiron . 
`` Then we'd really have someplace to go '' . 
Bowie , Md. , March 17 -- Gaining her second straight victory , Norman B. , Small , Jr.'s Garden Fresh , a 3-year-old filly , downed promising colts in the $4,500 St. Patrick's Day Purse , featured seventh race here today , and paid $7.20 straight . 
Toying with her field in the early stages , Garden Fresh was asked for top speed only in the stretch by Jockey Philip Grimm and won by a length and a half in 1.24 3-5 for the 7 furlongs . 
8,280 attend races Richard M. Forbes's Paget , which had what seemed to be a substantial lead in the early stages , tired rapidly nearing the wire and was able to save place money only a head in front of Glen T. Hallowell's Milties Miss . 
A bright sun and brisk wind had the track in a fast condition for the first time this week and 8,280 St. Patty Day celebrants bet $842,617 on the well-prepared program . 
Prior to the featured race , the stewards announced that apprentice James P. Verrone is suspended ten days for crowding horses and crossing the field sharply in two races on Wednesday . 
Culmone gets first win Garden Fresh , the result of a mating of Better Self and Rosy Fingered , seems to improve with each start and appeared to win the St. Patrick's Day Purse with some speed in reserve . 
She was moving up to the allowance department after winning a $10,000 claiming event . 
Cleveland , March 17 ( AP ) -- George Kerr , the swift-striding Jamaican , set a meet record in the 600-yard run in the Knights of Columbus track meet tonight , beating Purdue's Dave Mills in a hot duel in 1.10.1 . 
Kerr , who set the world record earlier this month in New York with a clocking of 1.09.3 , wiped out Mills's early pace and beat the young Big 10 quarter-mile king by 5 yards . 
Both were under the meet mark of 1.10.8 set in 1950 by Mal Whitfield . 
Mills shot out in front and kept the lead through two thirds of the race . 
Then Kerr , a graduate student from Illinois , moved past him on a straightaway and held off Mills's challenge on the final turn . 
Mills was timed in 1.10.4 . 
The crowd at the twenty-first annual K. of C. Games , final indoor meet of the season , got a thrill a few minutes earlier when a slender , bespectacled woman broke the one-week-old world record in the half-mile run . 
Mrs. Grace Butcher , of nearby Chardon , a 27-year-old housewife who has two children , finished in 2.21.6 . 
She snapped five tenths of a second off the mark set by Helen Shipley , of Wellsley College , in the National A.A.U. meet in Columbus , Ohio . 
San Francisco , March 17 ( AP ) -- Bobby Waters of Sylvania , Ga. , relief quarterback for the San Francisco 49ers of the National Football League , will undergo a knee operation tomorrow at Franklin Hospital here . 
Waters injured his left knee in the last game of the 1960 season . 
While working out in Sylvania a swelling developed in the knee and he came here to consult the team physician . 
St. Petersburg , Fla. , March 17 ( AP ) -- Two errors by New York Yankee shortstop Tony Kubek in the eleventh inning donated four unearned runs and a 5-to-2 victory to the Chicago White Sox today . 
Austin , Texas -- A Texas halfback who doesn't even know the team's plays , Eldon Moritz , ranks fourth in Southwest Conference scoring after three games . 
Time stands still every time Moritz , a 26-year-old Army Signal Corps veteran , goes into the field . 
Although he never gets to play while the clock is running , he gets a big kick -- several every Saturday , in fact -- out of football . 
Moritz doesn't even have a nose guard or hip pads but he's one of the most valuable members of the Longhorn team that will be heavily favored Saturday over Oklahoma in the Cotton Bowl . 
That's because he already has kicked 14 extra points in 15 tries . 
He ran his string of successful conversions this season to 13 straight before one went astray last Saturday night in the 41-8 slaughter of Washington State . 
Moritz is listed on the Longhorn roster as a right halfback , the position at which he lettered on the 1956 team . 
But ask coach Darrell Royal what position he plays and you'll get the quick response , `` place-kicker '' . 
A 208-pound , 6-foot 1-inch senior from Stamford , Moritz practices nothing but place-kicking . 
Last year , when he worked out at halfback all season , he didn't get into a single game . 
`` This year , coach Royal told me if I'd work on my place-kicking he thought he could use me '' , said Moritz . 
`` So I started practicing on it in spring training . 
Moritz was bothered during the first two games this year by a pulled muscle in the thigh of his right ( kicking ) leg and , as a result , several of his successful conversions have gone barely far enough . 
Moritz said Monday his leg feels fine and , as a result , he hopes to start practicing field goals this week . 
He kicked several while playing at Stamford High School , including one that beat Anson , 3-0 , in a 1953 district game . 
`` I kicked about 110 extra points in 135 tries during three years in high school '' , he said , `` and made 26 in a row at one time . 
I never did miss one in a playoff game -- I kicked about 20 in the five playoff games my last two years '' . 
Moritz came to Texas in 1954 but his freshman football efforts were hampered by a knee injury . 
He missed the 1955 season because of an operation on the ailing knee , then played 77 minutes in 1956 . 
His statistical record that year , when Texas won only one game and lost nine , was far from impressive : he carried the ball three times for a net gain of 10 yards , punted once for 39 yards and caught one pass for 13 yards . 
He went into the Army in March , 1957 , and returned two years later . 
But he was scholastically ineligible in 1959 and merely present last season . 
Place kicking is largely a matter of timing , Moritz declared . 
`` Once you get the feel of it , there's not much to it . 
I've tried to teach some of the other boys to kick and some of them can't seem to get the feel . 
Practice helps you to get your timing down . 
`` It's kind of like golf -- if you don't swing a club very often , your timing gets off '' . 
Moritz , however , kicks only about 10 or 12 extra points during each practice session . 
`` If you kick too much , your leg gets kinda dead '' , he explained . 
Footnotes : In their first three games , the Longhorns have had the ball 41 times and scored 16 times , or 40 per cent ; ; their total passing yardage in three games , 447 on 30 completions in 56 attempts , is only 22 yards short of their total passing yardage in 1959 , when they made 469 on 37 completions in 86 tries . 
Tailback James Saxton already has surpassed his rushing total for his brilliant sophomore season , when he netted 271 yards on 55 carries ; ; he now has 273 yards in 22 tries during three games . 
Saxton has made only one second-half appearance this season and that was in the Washington State game , for four plays : he returned the kickoff 30 yards , gained five yards through the line and then uncorked a 56-yard touchdown run before retiring to the bench . 
Wingback Jack Collins injured a knee in the Washington State game but insists he'll be ready for Oklahoma . 
Last week , when Royal was informed that three Longhorns were among the conference's top four in rushing , he said : `` That won't last long '' . 
It didn't ; ; Monday , he had four Longhorns in the top four . 
A good feeling prevailed on the SMU coaching staff Monday , but attention quickly turned from Saturday's victory to next week's problem : Rice University . 
The Mustangs don't play this week . 
`` We're just real happy for the players '' , Coach Bill Meek said of the 9-7 victory over the Air Force Academy . 
`` I think the big thing about the game was that our kids for the third straight week stayed in there pitching and kept the pressure on . 
It was the first time we've been ahead this season ( when John Richey kicked what proved to be the winning field goal ) '' . 
Assistant coach John Cudmore described victory as `` a good feeling , I think , on the part of the coaches and the players . 
We needed it and we got it '' . 
Meek expressed particular gratification at the defensive performances of end Happy Nelson and halfback Billy Gannon . 
Both turned in top jobs for the second straight game . 
`` Nelson played magnificent football '' , Meek praised . 
`` He knocked down the interference and made key stops lots of times . 
And he caused the fumble that set up our touchdown . 
He broke that boy ( Air Force fullback Nick Arshinkoff ) in two and knocked him loose from the football '' . 
Gannon contributed saving plays on the Falcons' aerial thrusts in the late stages . 
One was on a fourth-down screen pass from the Mustang 21 after an incomplete pass into Gannon's territory . 
`` As soon as it started to form , Gannon spotted it '' , Meek said . 
`` He timed it just right and broke through there before the boy ( halfback Terry Isaacson ) had time to turn around . 
He really crucified him he nailed it for a yard loss '' . 
The Air Force's , and the game's , final play , was a long pass by quarterback Bob McNaughton which Gannon intercepted on his own 44 and returned 22 yards . 
`` He just lay back there and waited for it '' , Meek said . 
`` He almost brought it back all the way '' . 
Except for sophomore center Mike Kelsey and fullback Mike Rice , Meek expects the squad to be physically sound for Rice . 
`` Kelsey is very doubtful for the Rice game '' , Meek said . 
`` He'll be out of action all this week . 
He got hit from the blind side by the split end coming back on the second play of the game . 
There is definitely some ligament damage in his knee '' . 
Rice has not played since injuring a knee in the opener with Maryland . 
`` He's looking a lot better , and he's able to run '' , Meek explained . 
`` We'll let him do a lot of running this week , but I don't know if he'll be able to play '' . 
The game players saw the Air Force film Monday , ran for 30 minutes , then went in , while the reserves scrimmaged for 45 minutes . 
`` We'll work hard Tuesday , Wednesday and Thursday '' , Meek said , `` and probably will have a good scrimmage Friday . 
We'll work out about an hour on Saturday , then we'll work Monday and Tuesday of next week , then taper off '' . 
SMU will play the Owls at Rice Stadium in Houston in a night game Saturday , Oct. 21 . 
Huddle hearsay -- Held out of Texas Tech's sweat-suits drill Monday at Lubbock was tackle Richard Stafford , who is undergoing treatment for a leg injury suffered in the Raiders' 38-7 loss to Texas A & M Because of its important game with Arkansas coming up Saturday , Baylor worked out in the rain Monday -- mud or no mud . 
End Gene Raesz , who broke a hand in the Owl's game with LSU , was back working out with Rice Monday , and John Nichols , sophomore guard , moved back into action after a week's idleness with an ankle injury . 
The Texas Aggies got a day off Monday -- a special gift from Coach Jim Myers for its conference victory last Saturday night , but Myers announced that halfback George Hargett , shaken up in the Tech game , would not play against Trinity Saturday . 
Halfback Bud Priddy , slowed for almost a month by a slowly-mending sprained ankle , joined TCU's workout Monday . 
The Dallas Texans were back home Monday with their third victory in four American Football League starts -- a 19-12 triumph over the Denver Broncos -- but their visit will be a short one . 
The Texans have two more road games -- at Buffalo and Houston -- before they play for the home folks again , and it looks as if coach Hank Stram's men will meet the Bills just as they are developing into the kind of team they were expected to be in pre-season reckonings . 
Buffalo coach Buster Ramsey , who has become one of the game's greatest collectors of quarterbacks , apparently now has found a productive pair in two ex-National Football Leaguers , M. C. Reynolds and Warren Rabb . 
Rabb , the former Louisiana State field general , came off the bench for his debut with the Bills Sunday and directed his new team to a 22-12 upset victory over the Houston Oilers , defending league champions . 
`` Just our luck '' ! 
Exclaimed Stram . 
`` Buster would solve that quarterback problem just as we head that way '' . 
Ramsey has a thing or two to mutter about himself , for the Dallas defensive unit turned in another splendid effort against Denver , and the Texans were able to whip the dangerous Broncs without the fullbacking of a top star , Jack Spikes , though he did the team's place-kicking while nursing a knee injury . 
`` Our interior line and out linebackers played exceptionally well '' , said Stram Monday after he and his staff reviewed movies of the game . 
`` In fact our whole defensive unit did a good job '' . 
The Texans won the game through ball control , with Quarterback Cotton Davidson throwing only 17 passes . 
`` We always like to keep the ball as much as we can against Denver because they have such an explosive attack '' , explained Stram . 
`` They can be going along , doing little damage , then bang , bang -- they can hit a couple of passes on you for touchdowns and put you in trouble '' . 
The Broncs did hit two quick strikes in the final period against the Texans , but Dallas had enough of a lead to hold them off . 
The principal tactic in controlling the ball was giving it to Abner Haynes , the flashy halfback . 
He was called upon 26 times -- more than all of the other ball-carriers combined -- and delivered 145 yards . 
The Texans made themselves a comforting break on the opening kickoff when Denver's Al Carmichael was jarred loose from the ball when Dave Grayson , the speedy halfback , hit him and Guard Al Reynolds claimed it for Dallas . 
A quick touchdown resulted . 
`` That permitted us to start controlling the ball right away '' , said Stram , quipping , `` I think I'll put that play in the book '' . 
The early Southwest Conference football leaders -- Texas , Arkansas and Texas A & M -- made a big dent in the statistics last week . 
Texas' 545-yard spree against Washington State gave the Longhorns a 3-game total offense of 1,512 yards ( 1,065 rushing and 447 passing ) a new SWC high . 
Arkansas combined 280 yards rushing with 64 yards passing ( on 5 completions in 7 tosses ) and a tough defense to whip TCU , and A & M , with a 38-point bulge against Texas Tech ran up its biggest total loop play since 1950 . 
Completing 12 of 15 passes for 174 yards , the Aggies had a total offense of 361 yards . 
Texas leads in per-game rushing averages , 355 yards , and passing 149 ( to Baylor's 126 ) , but idle Baylor has the best defensive record ( 187.5 yards per game to Texas' 189 ) . 
A & M has the best defense against passes , 34.7 yards per game . 
Not satisfied with various unofficial checks on the liveliness of baseballs currently in use , the major leagues have ordered their own tests , which are in progress at Massachusetts Institute of Technology . 
Rookie Ron Nischwitz continued his pinpoint pitching Monday night as the Bears made it two straight over Indianapolis , 5-3 . 
The husky 6-3 , 205-pound lefthander , was in command all the way before an on-the-scene audience of only 949 and countless of television viewers in the Denver area . 
It was Nischwitz' third straight victory of the new season and ran the Grizzlies' winning streak to four straight . 
They now lead Louisville by a full game on top of the American Association pack . 
Nischwitz fanned six and walked only Charley Hinton in the third inning . 
He has given only the one pass in his 27 innings , an unusual characteristic for a southpaw . 
The Bears took the lead in the first inning , as they did in Sunday's opener , and never lagged . 
Dick McAuliffe cracked the first of his two doubles against Lefty Don Rudolph to open the Bear's attack . 
After Al Paschal gruonded out , Jay Cooke walked and Jim McDaniel singled home McAuliffe . 
Alusik then moved Cooke across with a line drive to left . 
Jay Porter drew a base on balls to fill the bases but Don Wert's smash was knocked down by Rudolph for the putout . 
The Bears added two more in the fifth when McAuliffe dropped a double into the leftfield corner , Paschal doubled down the rightfield line and Cooke singled off Phil Shartzer's glove . 
Nischwitz was working on a 3-hitter when the Indians bunched three of their eight hits for two runs in the sixth . 
Chuck Hinton tripled to the rightfield corner , Cliff Cook and Dan Pavletich singled and Gaines' infield roller accounted for the tallies . 
The Bears added their last run in the sixth on Alusik's double and outfield flies by Porter and Wert . 
Gaines hammered the ball over the left fence for the third Indianapolis run in the ninth . 
Despite the 45-degree weather the game was clicked off in 1:48 , thanks to only three bases on balls and some good infield play . 
Chico Ruiz made a spectacular play on Alusik's grounder in the hole in the fourth and Wert came up with some good stops and showed a strong arm at third base . 
Bingles and bobbles : Cliff Cook accounted for three of the Tribe's eight hits . 
It was the season's first night game and an obvious refocusing of the lights are in order . 
The infield was well flooded but the expanded outfield was much too dark . 
Mary Dobbs Tuttle was back at the organ . 
Among the spectators was the noted exotic dancer , Patti Waggin who is Mrs. Don Rudolph when off the stage . 
Lefty Wyman Carey , another Denver rookie , will be on the mound against veteran John Tsitouris at 8 o'clock Tuesday night . 
Ed Donnelly is still bothered by a side injury and will miss his starting turn . 
Dallas , Tex. , May 1 -- ( AP ) -- Kenny Lane of Muskegon , Mich. , world's seventh ranked lightweight , had little trouble in taking a unanimous decision over Rip Randall of Tyler , Tex. , here Monday night . 
St. Paul-Minneapolis , May 1 -- ( AP ) -- Billy Gardner's line double , which just eluded the diving Minnie Minoso in left field , drove in Jim Lemon with the winning run with two out in the last of the ninth to give the Minnesota Twins a 6-5 victory over the Chicago White Sox Monday . 
Lemon was on with his fourth single of the game , a liner to center . 
He came all the way around on Gardner's hit before 5777 fans . 
It was Gardner's second run batted in of the game and his only ones of the year . 
Turk Lown was tagged with the loss , his second against no victories , while Ray Moore won his second game against a single loss . 
The Twins tied the score in the sixth inning when Reno Bertoia beat out a high chopper to third base and scored on Lenny Green's double to left . 
The White Sox had taken a 5-4 lead in the top of the sixth on a pair of pop fly hits -- a triple by Roy Sievers and single by Camilo Carreon -- a walk and a sacrifice fly . 
Jim Landis' 380-foot home run over left in the first inning gave the Sox a 1-0 lead , but Harmon Killebrew came back in the bottom of the first with his second homer in two days with the walking Bob Allison aboard . 
Al Smith's 340-blast over left in the fourth -- his fourth homer of the campaign -- tied the score and Carreon's first major league home run in the fifth put the Sox back in front . 
A double by Green , Allison's run-scoring 2-baser , an infield single by Lemon and Gardner's solid single to center put the Twins back in front in the last of the fifth . 
Ogden , Utah , May 1 -- ( AP ) -- Boston Red Sox Outfielder Jackie Jensen said Monday night he was through playing baseball . 
`` I've had it '' , he told a newsman . 
`` I know when my reflexes are gone and I'm not going to be any 25th man on the ball club '' . 
This was the first word from Jensen on his sudden walkout . 
Jensen got only six hits in 46 at-bats for a batting average in the first 12 games . 
He took a midnight train out of Cleveland Saturday , without an official word to anybody , and has stayed away from newsmen on his train trip across the nation to Reno , Nev. , where his wife , former Olympic Diving Champion Zoe Ann Olsen , awaited . 
She said , when she learned Jackie was heading home : `` I'm just speculating , but I have to think Jack feels he's hurting Boston's chances '' . 
The Union Pacific Railroad streamliner , City of San Francisco , stopped in Ogden , Utah , for a few minutes . 
Sports Writer Ensign Ritchie of the Ogden Standard Examiner went to his compartment to talk with him . 
The conductor said to Ritchie : `` I don't think you want to talk to him . 
You'll probably get a ball bat on the head . 
He's mad at the world '' . 
But Jackie had gone into the station . 
Ritchie walked up to him at the magazine stand . 
`` I told him who I was and he was quite cold . 
But he warmed up after a while . 
I told him what Liston had said and he said Liston was a double-crosser and said anything he ( Liston ) got was through a keyhole . 
He said he had never talked to Liston '' . 
Liston is Bill Liston , baseball writer for the Boston Traveler , who quoted Jensen as saying : `` I can't hit anymore . 
I can't run . 
I can't throw . 
Suddenly my reflexes are gone . 
Just when it seems baseball might be losing its grip on the masses up pops heroics to start millions of tongues to wagging . 
And so it was over the weekend what with 40-year-old Warren Spahn pitching his no-hit masterpiece against the Giants and the Giants' Willie Mays retaliating with a record-tying 4-homer spree Sunday . 
Both , of course , were remarkable feats and further embossed the fact that baseball rightfully is the national pastime . 
Of the two cherished achievements the elderly Spahn's hitless pitching probably reached the most hearts . 
It was a real stimulant to a lot of guys I know who have moved past the 2-score-year milestone . 
And one of the Milwaukee rookies sighed and remarked , `` Wish I was 40 , and a top-grade big leaguer . 
The modest and happy Spahn waved off his new laurels as one of those good days . 
But there surely can be no doubt about the slender southpaw belonging with the all-time great lefthanders in the game's history . 
Yes , with Bob Grove , Carl Hubbell , Herb Pennock , Art Nehf , Vernon Gomez , et al . 
Spahn not only is a superior pitcher but a gentlemanly fine fellow , a ball player's ball player , as they say in the trade . 
I remember his beardown performance in a meaningless exhibition game at Bears Stadium Oct. 14 , 1951 , before a new record crowd for the period of 18,792 . 
`` Spahnie doesn't know how to merely go through the motions '' , remarked Enos Slaughter , another all-out guy , who played rightfield that day and popped one over the clubhouse . 
The spectacular Mays , who reaches a decade in the big leagues come May 25 , joined six other sluggers who walloped four home runs in a span of nine innings . 
Incidentally , only two did it before a home audience . 
Bobby Lowe of Boston was the first to hit four at home and Gil Hodges turned the trick in Brooklyn's Ebbetts Field . 
Ed Delahanty and Chuck Klein of the Phillies , the Braves' Joe Adcock , Lou Gehrig of the Yankees , Pat Seerey of the White Sox and Rocky Colavito , then with Cleveland , made their history on the road . 
Willie's big day revived the running argument about the relative merits of Mays and Mickey Mantle . 
This is an issue which boils down to a matter of opinion , depending on whether you're an American or National fan and anti or pro-Yankee . 
The record books , however , would favor the Giants' ace . 
In four of his nine previous seasons Mays hit as many as 25 home runs and stole as many as 25 bases . 
Once the figure was 30-30 . 
Willie's lifetime batting average of is 11 points beyond Mickey's . 
The Giants who had been anemic with the bat in their windy Candlestick Park suddenly found the formula in Milwaukee's park . 
It will forever be a baseball mystery how a team will suddenly start hitting after a distressing slump . 
The Denver-area TV audience was privileged to see Mays' four home runs , thanks to a new arrangement made by Bob Howsam that the games are not to be blacked out when his Bears are playing at home . 
This rule providing for a blackout of televised baseball 30 minutes before the start of a major or minor league game in any area comes from the game's top rulers . 
The last couple of years the Bears management got the business from the `` Living Room Athletic Club '' when games were cut off . 
Actually they were helpless to do anything about the nationwide policy . 
This year , I am told , the CBS network will continue to abide by the rule but NBC will play to a conclusion here . 
There are two more Sunday afternoons when the situation will arise . 
It is an irritable rule that does baseball more harm than good , especially at the minor league level . 
You would be surprised how many fans purposely stayed away from Bears Stadium last year because of the television policy . 
This dissatisfaction led to Howsam's request that the video not be terminated before the end of the game . 
Cincinnati , Ohio ( AP ) -- The powerful New York Yankees won their 19th world series in a 5-game romp over outclassed Cincinnati , crushing the Reds in a humiliating 13-5 barrage Monday in the loosely played finale . 
With Mickey Mantle and Yogi Berra both out of action due to injuries , the American League champs still mounted a 15-hit attack against a parade of eight Cincinnati pitchers , the most ever used by one team in a series game . 
Johnny Blanchard , Mantle's replacement , slammed a 2-run homer as the Yankees routed loser Joey Jay in a 5-run first inning . 
Hector Lopez , subbing for Berra , smashed a 3-run homer off Bill Henry during another 5-run explosion in the fourth . 
The Yanks also took advantage of three Cincinnati errors . 
The crowd of 32,589 had only two chances to applaud . 
In the third Frank Robinson hammered a long home run deep into the corner of the bleachers in right center , about 400 feet away , with two men on . 
Momentarily the Reds were back in the ball game , trailing only 6-3 , but the drive fizzled when John Edwards fouled out with men on second and third and two out . 
In the fifth , Wally Post slashed a 2-run homer off Bud Daley , but by that time the score was 11-5 and it really didn't matter . 
The Yankee triumph made Ralph Houk only the third man to lead a team to both a pennant and a World Series victory in his first year as a manager . 
Only Bucky Harris , the `` boy-manager '' of Washington in 1924 , and Eddie Dyer of the St. Louis Cardinals in 1946 had accomplished the feat . 
Philadelphia , Jan. 23 -- Nick Skorich , the line coach for the football champion Philadelphia Eagles , was elevated today to head coach . 
Skorich received a three-year contract at a salary believed to be between $20,000 and $25,000 a year . 
He succeeds Buck Shaw , who retired at the end of last season . 
The appointment was announced at a news conference at which Skorich said he would retain two members of Shaw's staff -- Jerry Williams and Charlie Gauer . 
Williams is a defensive coach . 
Gauer works with the ends . 
Choice was expected The selection had been expected . 
Skorich was considered the logical choice after the club gave Norm Van Brocklin permission to seek the head coaching job with the Minnesota Vikings , the newest National Football League entry . 
Van Brocklin , the quarterback who led the Eagles to the title , was signed by the Vikings last Wednesday . 
Philadelphia permitted him to seek a better connection after he had refused to reconsider his decision to end his career as a player . 
With Skorich at the helm , the Eagles are expected to put more emphasis on running , rather than passing . 
In the past the club depended largely on Van Brocklin's aerials . 
Skorich , however , is a strong advocate of a balanced attack -- split between running and passing . 
Coach played 3 years Skorich , who is 39 years old , played football at Cincinnati University and then had a three-year professional career as a lineman under Jock Sutherland with the Pittsburgh Steelers . 
An injury forced Skorich to quit after the 1948 season . 
He began his coaching career at Pittsburgh Central Catholic High School in 1949 . 
He remained there for four years before moving to Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy , N. Y. . 
He was there one season before rejoining the Steelers as an assistant coach . 
Four years later he resigned to take a similar job with the Green Bay Packers . 
The Eagles signed him for Shaw's staff in 1959 . 
Skorich began his new job auspiciously today . 
At a ceremony in the reception room of Mayor Richardson Dilworth , the Eagles were honored for winning the championship . 
Shaw and Skorich headed a group of players , coaches and team officials who received an engrossed copy of an official city citation and a pair of silver cufflinks shaped like a football . 
With the announcement of a `` special achievement award '' to William A. ( ( Bill ) Shea , the awards list was completed yesterday for Sunday night's thirty-eighth annual dinner and show of the New York Chapter , Baseball Writers' Association of America , at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel . 
Shea , the chairman of Mayor Wagner's Baseball Committee , will be joined on the dais by Warren Spahn , the southpaw pitching ace of the Milwaukee Braves ; ; Frank Graham , the Journal-American sports columnist ; ; Bill Mazeroski , the World Series hero of the Pittsburgh Pirates , and Casey Stengel , the former manager of the Yankees . 
Stengel will receive the Ben Epstein Good Guy Award . 
Mazeroski , whose homer beat the Yankees in the final series game , will receive the Babe Ruth Award as the outstanding player in the 1960 world series . 
Graham will be recognized for his meritorious service to baseball and will get the William J. Slocum Memorial Award . 
To Spahn will go the Sid Mercer Memorial Award as the chapter's player of the year . 
Show follows ceremonies A crowd of 1,400 is expected for the ceremonies , which will be followed by the show in which the writers will lampoon baseball personalities in skit , dance and song . 
The 53-year-old Shea , a prominent corporation lawyer with a sports background , is generally recognized as the man most responsible for the imminent return of a National League club to New York . 
Named by Mayor Wagner three years ago to head a committee that included James A. Farley , Bernard Gimbel and Clint Blume , Shea worked relentlessly . 
His goal was to obtain a National League team for this city . 
The departure of the Giants and the Dodgers to California left New York with only the Yankees . 
Despite countless barriers and disappointments , Shea moved forward . 
When he was unable to bring about immediate expansion , he sought to convince another National League club to move here . 
When that failed , he enlisted Branch Rickey's aid in the formation of a third major league , the Continental , with New York as the key franchise . 
The Continental League never got off the ground , but after two years it forced the existing majors to expand . 
Flushing stadium in works The New York franchise is headed by Mrs. Charles Shipman Payson . 
A big-league municipal stadium at Flushing Meadow Park is in the works , and once the lease is signed the local club will be formally recognized by Commissioner Ford C. Frick . 
Shea's efforts figure prominently in the new stadium . 
Shea and his wife , Nori , make their home at Sands Point , L. I. . 
Bill Jr. , 20 , Kathy , 15 , and Patricia , 9 , round out the Shea family . 
Shea was born in Manhattan . 
He attended New York University before switching to Georgetown University in Washington . 
He played basketball there while working toward a law degree . 
Later , Shea owned and operated the Long Island Indians , a minor league professional football team . 
He was the lawyer for Ted Collins' old Boston Yankees in the National Football League . 
All was quiet in the office of the Yankees and the local National Leaguers yesterday . 
On Friday , Roger Maris , the Yankee outfielder and winner of the American League's most-valuable-player award , will meet with Roy Hamey , the general manager . 
Maris is in line for a big raise . 
Arnold Palmer and Sam Snead will be among those honored at the national awards dinner of the Metropolitan Golf Writers Association tonight . 
The dinner will be held at the Hotel Pierre . 
Palmer , golf's leading money-winner in 1960 , and Snead will be saluted as the winning team in the Canada Cup matches last June in Dublin . 
Deane Beman , the National Amateur champion , and all the metropolitan district champions , including Bob Gardner , the amateur title-holder , also will receive awards . 
The writers' Gold Tee Award will go to John McAuliffe of Plainfield , N. J. , and Palm Beach , Fla. , for his sponsorship of charity tournaments . 
Horton Smith of Detroit , a former president of the Professional Golfers Association , will receive the Ben Hogan Trophy for his comeback following a recent illness . 
The principal speaker will be Senator Stuart Symington , Democrat of Missouri . 
Golf's golden boy Arnold Palmer has been a blazing figure in golf over the past twelve months . 
He won the Masters , the United States Open and a record $80,738 in prize money . 
He was heralded as `` Sportsman of the Year '' by Sports Illustrated , and last night was acclaimed in Rochester as the `` Professional Athlete of the Year '' , a distinction that earned for him the $10,000 diamond-studded Hickok Belt . 
But he also achieved something that endeared him to every duffer who ever flubbed a shot . 
A couple of weeks ago , he scored a monstrous 12 on a par-5 hole . 
It made him human . 
And it also stayed the hands of thousands of brooding incompetents who were meditating the abandonment of a sport whose frustrations were driving them to despair . 
If such a paragon of perfection as Palmer could commit such a scoring sacrilege , there was hope left for all . 
It was neither a spirit of self-sacrifice nor a yen to encourage the downtrodden that motivated Arnold . 
He merely became victimized by a form of athletics that respects no one and aggravates all . 
The world's best golfer , shooting below par , came to the last hole of the opening round of the Los Angeles open with every intention of delivering a final crusher . 
He boomed a 280-yard drive . 
Then the pixies and the zombies took over while the banshees wailed in the distance . 
No margin for error On the narrow fairway of a 508-yard hole , Arnold whipped into his second shot . 
The ball went off in a majestic arc , an out-of-bounds slice . 
He tried again and once more sliced out of bounds . 
He hooked the next two out of bounds on the opposite side . 
`` It is possible that I over-corrected '' , he said ruefully . 
Each of the four wayward shots cost him two strokes . 
So he wound up with a dozen . 
`` It was a nice round figure , that 12 '' , he said as he headed for the clubhouse , not too much perturbed . 
From the standpoint of the army of duffers , however , this was easily the most heartening exhibition they had had since Ben Hogan fell upon evil ways during his heyday and scored an 11 in the Texas open . 
The idol of the hackers , of course , is Ray Ainsley , who achieved a 19 in the United States Open . 
Their secondary hero is another pro , Willie Chisholm , who drank his lunch during another Open and tried to blast his way out of a rock-strewn gully . 
Willie's partner was Long Jim Barnes , who tried to keep count . 
Stickler for rules `` How many is that , Jim '' ? 
Asked Willie at one stage of his excavation project . 
`` Thirteen '' , said Long Jim . 
`` Nae , man '' , said Willie , `` ye must be countin' the echoes '' . 
He had a 16 . 
Palmer's dozen were honestly earned . 
Nor were there any rules to save him . 
If there had been , he would have found a loophole , because Arnold is one golfer who knows the code as thoroughly as the man who wrote the book . 
This knowledge has come in handy , too . 
His first shot in the Open last year landed in a brook that flowed along the right side of the fairway . 
The ball floated downstream . 
A spectator picked up the ball and handed it to a small boy , who dropped this suddenly hot potato in a very playable lie . 
Arnold sent for Joe Dey , the executive secretary of the golf association . 
Joe naturally ruled that a ball be dropped from alongside the spot where it had originally entered the stream . 
`` I knew it all along '' , confessed Arnold with a grin , `` but I just happened to think how much nicer it would be to drop one way up there '' . 
For a serious young man who plays golf with a serious intensity , Palmer has such an inherent sense of humor that it relieves the strain and keeps his nerves from jangling like banjo strings . 
Yet he remains the fiercest of competitors . 
He'll even bull head-on into the rules when he is sure he's right . 
That's how he first won the Masters in 1958 . 
It happened on the twelfth hole , a 155-yarder . 
Arnold's iron shot from the tee burrowed into the bunker guarding the green , an embankment that had become soft and spongy from the rains , thereby bringing local rules into force . 
Ruling from on high `` I can remove the ball , can't I '' ? 
Asked Palmer of an official . 
`` No '' , said the official . 
`` You must play it where it lies '' . 
`` You're wrong '' , said Arnold , a man who knows the rules . 
`` I'll do as you say , but I'll also play a provisional ball and get a ruling '' . 
He scored a 4 for the embedded ball , a 3 with the provisional one . 
The golfing fathers ruled in his favor . 
So he picked up a stroke with the provisional ball and won the tournament by the margin of that stroke . 
Until a few weeks ago , however , Arnold Palmer was some god-like creature who had nothing in common with the duffers . 
But after that 12 at Los Angeles he became one of the boys , a bigger hero than he ever had been before . 
A formula to supply players for the new Minneapolis Vikings and the problem of increasing the 1961 schedule to fourteen games will be discussed by National Football League owners at a meeting at the Hotel Warwick today . 
Other items on the agenda during the meetings , which are expected to continue through Saturday , concern television , rules changes , professional football's hall of fame , players' benefits and constitutional amendments . 
The owners would like each club in the fourteen-team league to play a home-and-home series with teams in its division , plus two games against teams in the other division . 
However , this would require a lengthening of the season from thirteen to fourteen weeks . 
Pete Rozelle , the league commissioner , pointed out : `` We'll have the problem of baseball at one end and weather at the other '' . 
Nine of the league's teams play in baseball parks and therefore face an early-season conflict in dates . 
If the Cardinals heed Manager Gene Mauch of the Phillies , they won't be misled by the Pirates' slower start this season . 
`` Pittsburgh definitely is the team to beat '' , Mauch said here the other day . 
`` The Pirates showed they could outclass the field last year . 
They have the same men , no age problem , no injuries and they also have Vinegar Bend Mizell for the full season , along with Bobby Shantz '' . 
Tonight at 8 o'clock the Cardinals , who gave the Pirates as much trouble as anyone did in 1960 , breaking even with them , will get their first 1961 shot at baseball's world champions . 
The Pirates have a 9-6 record this year and the Redbirds are 7-9 . 
Change in pitchers . 
Solly Hemus announced a switch in his starting pitcher , from Bob Gibson to Ernie Broglio , for several reasons : 1 Broglio's 4-0 won-lost record and 1.24 earned-run mark against Pittsburgh a year ago ; ; 2 The desire to give Broglio as many starts as possible ; ; 3 The Redbirds' disheartening 11-7 collapse against the Phillies Sunday . 
Manager Hemus , eager to end a pitching slump that has brought four losses in the five games on the current home stand , moved Gibson to the Wednesday night starting assignment . 
After Thursday's open date , Solly plans to open with Larry Jackson against the Cubs here Friday night . 
Harvey Haddix , set back by the flu this season , will start against his former Cardinal mates , who might be playing without captain Kenny Boyer in tonight's game at Busch Stadium . 
Boyer is suffering from a stiff neck . 
Haddix has a 13-8 record against the Redbirds , despite only a 1-3 mark in 1960 . 
Pirate Manager Danny Murtaugh said he hadn't decided between Mizell and Vern Law for Wednesday's game . 
Mizell has won both of his starts . 
Nieman kept in lineup . 
After a lengthy workout yesterday , an open date , Hemus said that Bob Nieman definitely would stay in the lineup . 
That means Stan Musial probably will ride the bench on the seventh anniversary of his record five-home run day against the Giants . 
`` I have to stay with Nieman for a while '' , Hemus said . 
`` Bill White ( sore ankles ) should be ready . 
With a lefthander going for Pittsburgh , I may use Don Taussig in center '' . 
`` Lindy McDaniel threw batting practice about 25 minutes , and he looked good '' , Hemus said . 
`` He should be getting back in the groove before long . 
Our pitching is much better than it has shown '' . 
The statistics hardly indicated that the Pirates needed extra batting practice , but Murtaugh also turned his men loose at Busch Stadium yesterday . 
Six Bucks over . 
Until the Bucs' bats quieted down a bit in Cincinnati over the weekend , the champions had eight men hitting over . 
Despite the recession , Pittsburgh came into town with this imposing list of averages : Smoky Burgess , Gino Cimoli , Bill Virdon , Bob Clemente and Dick Groat , each , Dick Stuart , Don Hoak and Bob Skinner . 
Bill Mazeroski with and Hal Smith with were the only Pirates dragging their feet . 
Perhaps the Pirate who will be the unhappiest over the news that Musial probably will sit out most of the series is Bob Friend , who was beaten by The Man twice last season on dramatic home runs . 
Friend is off to a great start with a 4-0 record but isn't likely to see action here this week . 
`` We're getting Friend some runs for a change , and he has been pitching good '' , Murtaugh said . 
`` Virdon has been blasting the ball . 
No plunkers for him '' . 
Six Bucs over . 
The Pirates jumped off to an 11-3 start by May 1 last year , when the Redbirds as well as the Dodgers held them even over the season . 
On last May 1 , the Cardinals stood at 7-6 , ending a two-season fall-off on that milestone . 
In 1958 , the Birds were 3-10 on May 1 . 
A year later they were 4-13 . 
Since 1949 , the St. Louis club has been below on May 1 just four times . 
The '49 team was off to a so-so 5-5 beginning , then fell as low as 12-17 on May 23 before finishing with 96 victories . 
The '52 Cards were 6-7 on May 1 but ended with 88 triumphs , the club's top since 1949 . 
Then last season the Birds tumbled as low as 11-18 on May 19 before recovering to make a race of it and total 86 victories . 
Since 1949 , the only National League club that got off to a hot start and made a runaway of the race was the '55 Dodger team . 
Those Dodgers won their first 10 games and owned a 21-2 mark and a nine-game lead by May 8 . 
The club that overcame the worst start in a comparable period to win the pennant was New York's '51 Giants , who dropped 11 of their first 13 . 
They honored the battling Billikens last night . 
Speakers at a Tipoff Club dinner dealt lavish praise to a group of St. Louis University players who , in the words of Coach John Benington , `` had more confidence in themselves than I did '' . 
The most valuable player award was split three ways , among Glen Mankowski , Gordon Hartweger and Tom Kieffer . 
In addition , a special award was given to Bob ( Bevo ) Nordmann , the 6-foot-10 center who missed much of the season because of a knee injury . 
`` You often hear people talk about team spirit and that sort of thing '' , Benington said in a conversation after the ceremonies , `` but what this team had was a little different . 
The boys had a tremendous respect for each other's ability . 
They knew what they could do and it was often a little more than I thought they could do . 
`` Several times I found the players pepping me up , where it usually is the coach who is supposed to deliver the fight talk . 
We'd be losing at halftime to a good team and Hartweger would say , ' Don't worry , Coach -- we'll get 'em all right ' '' . 
The trio who shared the most-valuable honors were introduced by Bob Broeg , sports editor of the Post-Dispatch . 
Kieffer , the only junior in the group , was commended for his ability to hit in the clutch , as well as his all-round excellent play . 
Mankowski , the ball-hawking defensive expert , was cited for his performance against Bradley in St. Louis U.'s nationally televised victory . 
Benington said , `` I've never seen a player have a game as great as Mankowski did against Bradley that day '' . 
Benington recalled that he once told Hartweger that he doubted Gordon would ever play much for him because he seemed to be lacking in all of the accepted basketball skills . 
After the coach listed all the boy's faults , Hartweger said , `` Coach before I leave here , you'll get to like me '' . 
Mrs. Benington admired Gordon's spirit and did what she could to persuade her husband that the boy might help the team . 
As Hartweger accepted his silver bowl , he said , `` I want to thank coach's wife for talking him into letting me play '' . 
Bob Burnes , sports editor of the Globe-Democrat , presented Bob Nordmann with his award . 
Bevo was congratulated for his efforts to stay in shape so that he could help the team if his knee healed in time . 
Within a week after the injury , suffered in St. Louis's victory in the final game of the Kentucky tournament , Nordmann was sitting on the Bill's bench doing what he could to help Benington . 
On the clock given him was the inscription , `` For Outstanding Contribution to Billiken Basketball , 1960-61 '' . 
Other lettermen from the team that compiled a 21-9 record and finished as runner-up in the National Invitation Tournament were : Art Hambric , Donnell Reid , Bill Nordmann , Dave Harris , Dave Luechtefeld and George Latinovich . 
`` This team set a precedent that could be valuable in the future '' , Benington pointed out . 
`` By winning against Bradley , Kentucky and Notre Dame on those teams' home courts , they showed that the home court advantage can be overcome anywhere and that it doesn't take a super team to do it '' . 
St. Louis University found a way to win a baseball game . 
Larry Scherer last night pitched a no-hit game , said to be the first in Billiken baseball history , as the Blue and White beat Southeast Missouri State College , 5-1 , at Crystal City . 
The victory was the first of the season for the Billikens after nine defeats and a tie . 
The tie was against Southeast Missouri last Friday . 
Scherer also had a big night at bat with four hits in five trips including a double , Len Boehmer also was 4-for-5 with two doubles and Dave Ritchie had a home run and a triple . 
St. Louis U. was to be in action again today with a game scheduled at 4 against Washington University at Ligget Field . 
The game opened a busy week for Washington . 
The Bears are set to play at Harris Teachers College at 3:30 tomorrow and have a doubleheader at Quincy , Ill. , Saturday . 
Happy hitting If it's true that contented cows give more milk , why shouldn't happy ball players produce more base hits ? 
The two top talents of the time , Mickey Mantle and Willie Mays , have hit the ball harder and more successfully so far this early season than at any period in careers which , to be frank about it , never have quite reached expectations . 
And that's meant as a boost , not a knock . 
Mays and Mantle , both 10-year men at 30 , have so much ability that , baseball men agree , they've never hit the heights . 
Their heights , that is . 
Mantle , the bull-necked blond switch-hitter , had one sensational triple-crown season , 1959 , when he batted and also led the American League in home runs , 52 , and rbi's , 130 . 
Like the Yankees' slugger , Mays , the terror of the Giants , has had seasons that would be considered the ultimate by most players , but not by -- or for -- Willie . 
His best years were 1954 when he hit with 41 homers and '55 when he belted 51 home runs , drove in 127 and stole 24 bases . 
Now , apparently happier under new managers , Mays and Mantle , the perfect players , are behaving as though they're going to pass those previous peaks . 
Labor relations Yes , we know , they're professionals , men paid to play , and they shouldn't care how they're handled , just as long as their names are spelled correctly on the first and fifteenth of each month . 
The truth is , though , that men react differently to different treatment . 
For that matter , Stan Musial is rare , possessing the disposition that enabled him to put out the same for seven managers , reserving his opinions , but not his effort . 
Mantle , it's apparent , resented Casey Stengel's attempts to push and prod him into the perfection the veteran manager saw as a thrilling possibility . 
The old man was almost too possessive . 
Stengel inherited DiMaggio , Rizzuto , but he brought up Mantle from Class C to the majors , from Joplin to New York . 
With the speed and power of the body beautiful he saw before him , Ol' Case wanted No. 7 to be not only the best homerun hitter , but also the best bunter , base-runner and outfielder . 
Stengel probably preached too much in the early days when the kid wanted to pop his bubble gum and sow his oats . 
Inheriting a more mature Mantle , who now has seen the sights on and off Broadway , Ralph Houk quietly bestowed , no pun intended , the mantle of authority on Mickey . 
The Major decided that , rather than be led , the slugger could lead . 
And what leadership a proud Mantle has given so far . 
The opinion continues here that with a 162-game schedule , pitching spread thin through a 10-team league and a most inviting target in Los Angeles' Wrigley Field Jr. , Mantle just might break the most glamorous record on the books , Babe Ruth's 60 homers of 1927 . 
Four for Alvin Mays' day came a day earlier for Willie than for the kids and Commies this year . 
Willie's wonderful walloping Sunday -- four home runs -- served merely to emphasize how happy he is to be playing for Alvin Dark . 
Next to Leo Durocher , Dark taught Mays the most when he was a grass-green rookie rushed up to the Polo Grounds 10 years ago this month , to help the Giants win a dramatic pennant . 
Romantic news concerns Mrs. Joan Monroe Armour and F. Lee H. Wendell , who are to be married at 4:30 p.m. tomorrow in the Lake Forest home of her brother , J. Hampton Monroe , and Mrs. Monroe . 
Only the families and a dozen close friends will be present . 
The bride's brother , Walter D. Monroe Jr. , will give her in marriage . 
In the small group will be the junior and senior Mrs. Walter Monroe ; ; the bridegroom's parents , the Barrett Wendells , who are returning from a winter holiday in Sarasota , Fla. , for the occasion ; ; and his brother , Mr. Wendell Jr. , and his wife , who will arrive from Boston . 
Mr. Wendell Jr. will be best man . 
Also present will be the bride's children , Joan , 13 , and Kirkland , 11 . 
Their father is Charles B. Armour . 
The bridegroom's children were here for the Christmas holidays and can't return . 
Young Peter Wendell , a student at the Westminster school , has measles , and his sister , Mrs. Andrew Thomas , and her husband , who live in Missoula , Mont. , have a new baby . 
Their mother is Mrs. Camilla Alsop Wendell . 
Mr. Wendell and his bride will live in his Lake Forest house . 
They will take a wedding trip later . 
' back with the Met `` We are back with the ' Met ' again now that the ' Met ' is back in Chicago '' , bulletins Mrs. Frank S. Sims , president of the women's board of the University of Chicago Cancer Research Foundation . 
The New York Metropolitan Opera Company will be here in May , and the board will sponsor the Saturday night , May 13 , performance of `` Turandot '' as a benefit . 
Birgit Nilsson will be starred . 
`` Housed in the new McCormick Place theater , this should prove to be an exciting evening '' , adds Mrs. Sims . 
The board's last money raising event was a performance by Harry Belafonte -- `` quite off-beat for this group '' , decided some of the members . 
Mrs. Henry T. Sulcer of Winnetka , a new board member , will be chairman of publicity for the benefit . 
Her husband recently was appointed vice president of the university , bringing them back here from the east . 
Parichy-Hamm Because of the recent death of the bride's father , Frederick B. Hamm , the marriage of Miss Terry Hamm to John Bruce Parichy will be a small one at noon tomorrow in St. Bernadine's church , Forest Park . 
A small reception will follow in the Oak Park Arms hotel . 
Mrs. Hamm will not come from Vero Beach , Fla. , for the wedding . 
However , Mr. Parichy and his bride will go to Vero Beach on their wedding trip , and will stay in the John G. Beadles' beach house . 
The Beadles formerly lived in Lake Forest . 
Harvey B. Stevens of Kenilworth will give his niece in marriage . 
Mr. and Mrs. Stevens and the bride's other uncles and aunts , the Rush C. Butlers , the Homer E. Robertsons , and the David Q. Porters , will give the bridal dinner tonight in the Stevenses' home . 
Here and there The Chicago Press club will fete George E. Barnes , president of the United States Lawn Tennis association , at a cocktail party and buffet supper beginning at 5:30 p.m. tomorrow . 
Later , a bus will carry members to the Chicago Stadium to see Jack Kramer's professional tennis matches at 8 p.m. . 
With loud huzzahs for the artistic success of the Presbyterian-St. Luke's Fashion show still ringing in her ears , its director , Helen Tieken Geraghty ( Mrs. Maurice P. Geraghty ) is taking off tomorrow on a 56 day world trip which should earn her even greater acclaim as director of entertainment for next summer's International Trade fair . 
Armed with letters from embassies to ministers of countries , especially those in the near and far east , Mrs. Geraghty `` will beat the bushes for oriental talent '' . 
`` We ( the Chicago Association of Commerce and Industry ) expect to establish closer relations with nations and their cultural activities , and it will be easy as a member of the fair staff to bring in acts '' , explains Mrs. Geraghty . 
`` For instance , Djakarta , Indonesia , has three groups of dancers interested in coming here . 
I'm even going to try to get the whirling dervishes of Damascus '' ! 
The last obstacle in Mrs. Geraghty's globe-girdling trip was smoothed out when a representative of Syria called upon her to explain that his brother would meet her at the border of that country -- so newly separated from Egypt and the United Arab Republic that she hadn't been able to obtain a visa . 
First , Honolulu Honolulu will be Mrs. Geraghty's first stop . 
Then Japan , Hong Kong , Manila , India , Pakistan , Damascus , Beirut , and to Rome , London , and Paris `` to look over wonderful talent '' . 
Dec. 22 is the deadline for Mrs. Geraghty's return ; ; the Geraghtys' youngest daughter , Molly , bows in the Passavant Debutante Cotillion the next night . 
Molly already has her cotillion gown , and it's fitted , says her mother . 
Also , invitations have been addressed to Molly's debut tea the afternoon of Dec. 29 in the Arts club . 
It won't be a `` tea '' , however , but more of an international folk song festival , with singers from Chicago's foreign groups to sing Christmas songs from around the world . 
The international theme will be continued with the Balkan strings playing for a dinner the Byron Harveys will give in the Racquet club after the tea . 
Miss Abra Prentice's debut supper dance in the Casino will wind up the day . 
Burke-Rostagno The Richard S. Burkes' home in Wayne may be the setting for the wedding reception for their daughter , Helen Lambert , and the young Italian she met last year while studying in Florence during her junior year at Smith college . 
He is Aldo Rostagno , son of the Guglielmo Rostagnos of Florence whom the Burkes met last year in Europe . 
The Burkes , who now live in Kankakee , are telling friends of the engagement . 
Miss Burke , a graduate of Miss Hall's school , stayed on in Florence as a career girl . 
Her fiance , who is with a publishing firm , translates many books from English into Italian . 
He will be coming here on business in December , when the wedding is to take place in Wayne . 
Miss Burke will arrive in December also . 
Here and there A farewell supper Mr. and Mrs. Charles H. Sethness Jr. planned Sunday for Italian Consul General and Mrs. Giacomo Profili has been canceled because Mr. Sethness is in Illinois Masonic hospital for surgery . 
Mrs. William Odell , Mrs. Clinton B. King , John Holabird Jr. , Norman Boothby , and Actress Maureen O'Sullivan will judge the costumes in the grand march at the Affaire Old Towne Bal Masque tomorrow in the Germania club . 
The party is to raise money for the Old Town Art center and to plant more crabapple trees along the streets of Old Town . 
Lyon around : Columnist Walter Winchell , well and rat-a-tat-tatty again , wheeled thru town between trains yesterday en route to his Phoenix , Ariz. , rancho , portable typewriter in hand . 
If W. W.'s retiring soon , as hinted , he ain't talking -- yet . 
Pretty Sunny Ainsworth , the ex-Mrs. Tommy Manville and the ex-Mrs. Bud Arvey , joined Playboy-Show-Biz Illustrated , as a promotional copy writer . 
She's a whiz . 
You can get into an argument about fallout shelters at the drop of a beer stein in clubs and pubs these nights . 
Everybody has a different idea on the ethics and morals of driving away neighbors , when and if . 
Comic Gary Morton signed to play the Living Room here Dec. 18 , because that's the only time his heart , Lucille Ball , can come along . 
And watch for a headline from this pair any time now . 
The Living Room has another scoop : Jane Russell will make one of her rare night club singing appearances there , opening Jan. 22 . 
La Russell's run in `` Skylark '' , debuting next week at Drury Lane , already is a sellout . 
Johnny Ray , at the same L. R. , has something to cry about . 
He's been warbling in severe pain ; ; a medico's injection inflamed a nerve , and Johnny can barely walk . 
Charley Simonelli , top Universal-International film studio exec , makes an honest man out of this column . 
As we bulletin'd way back , he'll wed pretty Rosemary Strafaci , of the Golf Mag staff , in N. Y. C. today . 
Handsome bachelor Charley was a favorite date of many of Hollywood's glamor gals for years . 
George Simon , exec director of Danny Thomas A. L. S. A. C. ( Aiding Leukemia Stricken American Children ) fund raising group , filled me in on the low-down phonies who are using phones to solicit funds for Danny's St. Jude hospital in Memphis . 
There is no such thing as an `` emergency telephone building fund drive '' . 
The only current event they're staging is the big show at the Stadium Nov. 25 , when Danny will entertain thousands of underprivileged kids . 
You can mail contribs to Danny Thomas , Post Office Box 7599 , Chicago . 
So , if anybody solicits by phone , make sure you mail the dough to the above . 
Olivia De Havilland signed to do a Broadway play for Garson Kanin this season , `` A Gift of Time '' . 
She'll move to Gotham after years in Paris . 
Gorgeous Doris Day and her producer-hubby , Marty Melcher , drive in today from a motor tour thru New England . 
D. D. will pop up with U-I Chief Milt Rackmil at the Carnegie theater tomorrow to toast 300 movie exhibitors . 
It'll be an all day affair with screenings of Doris' new one , `` Lover Come Back '' , and `` Flower Drum Song '' . 
Whee the People : Lovely Thrush Annamorena gave up a promising show biz career to apply glamor touches to her hubby , Ray Lenobel's fur firm here . 
Typical touch : She sold a $10,000 morning light mink to Sportsman Freddie Wacker for his frau , Jana Mason , also an ex-singer . 
In honor of the Wackers' new baby . 
Fur goodness sake ! 
Emcee Jack Herbert insists Dick Nixon's campaign slogan for governor of California is , `` Knight Must Fall '' ! 
Give generously when you buy candy today for the Brain Research Foundation . 
It's one of our town's worthiest charities . 
Best Bet for Tonight : That darlin' dazzler from Paree , Genevieve , opening in the Empire room . 
Dave Trager , who is quite a showman and boss of Chicago's new pro basketball Packers , is debuting a new International club , for the exclusive use of season ticket holders , in the Stock Yards Inn . 
Jump off is tomorrow night when the Packs meet St. Louis in their season home opener . 
Nobody's mentioned it , but when ol' Casey Stengel takes over as boss of the New York Mets , he'll be the only baseballight ever to wear the uniform of all New York area clubs , past and present : Yankees , Dodgers , Giants , and now the Mets . 
And Bernie Kriss calls the bayonet clashes at Berlin's Brandenburg Gate , `` The Battle of the Sentry '' ! 
The jotted Lyon : This mad world dept. : Khrush and the Kremlin crowd are confident all right . 
They're contaminating the earth's atmosphere including their own via mighty megaton bombs but their own peasants still don't know about it ! 
More : On the free world side . 
Albert John Luthuli , awarded a Nobel prize for his South African integration struggles , has to get permission to fly to collect his honor . 
Hmpf But on to the frothier side Johnny Weissmuller , the only real Tarzan , telephoned Maureen O'Sullivan , his first `` Jane '' ( now at Drury Lane ) and muttered , `` Me Tarzan , this Jane '' ? 
Snapped Maureen , `` Me Jane '' ! 
Actually Johnny is a glib , garrulous guy , with a rare sense of humor . 
Everywhere he went in town , people sidled up , gave him the guttural bit or broke into a frightening Tarzan yodel . 
He kids his Tarzan roles more than anyone . 
`` La Dolce Vita '' , the dynamite Italian flicker , opens at popular prices at the Loop theater Nov. 2 . 
My idea of masterful movie making . 
Bill Veeck's health is back to the dynamo stage , but his medics insist he rest for several more months before getting back into the baseball swim . 
William keeps up with our town's doings daily , via the Tribune , and he tells me he never misses the Ticker . 
That's our boy Bill . 
Jean Fardulli's Blue Angel is the first top local club to import that crazy new dance , the Twist . 
They'll start lessons , too , pronto . 
A cheer here for Francis Lorenz , state treasurer , who will meet with the probate advisory board of the Chicago Bar association , for suggestions on how to handle the opening of safety deposit boxes after somebody dies . 
After being closed for seven months , the Garden of the Gods Club will have its gala summer opening Saturday , June 3 . 
Music for dancing will be furnished by Allen Uhles and his orchestra , who will play each Saturday during June . 
Members and guests will be in for an added surprise with the new wing containing 40 rooms and suites , each with its own private patio . 
Gene Marshall , genial manager of the club , has announced that the Garden of the Gods will open to members Thursday , June 1 . 
Beginning July 4 , there will be an orchestra playing nightly except Sunday and Monday for the summer season . 
Mrs. J. Edward Hackstaff and Mrs. Paul Luette are planning a luncheon next week in honor of Mrs. J. Clinton Bowman , who celebrates her birthday on Tuesday . 
Mr. and Mrs. Jerry Chase announce the birth of a daughter , Sheila , on Wednesday in Mercy Hospital . 
Grandparents are Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Chase and Mr. and Mrs. Guy Mullenax of Kittredge . 
Mrs. Chase is the former Miss Mary Mullenax . 
Back to w. coast Mrs. McIntosh Buell will leave Sunday to return to her home in Santa Barbara , Calif. , after spending a week in her Polo Grounds home . 
Mrs. John C. Vroman Jr. of Manzanola is spending several days in her Sherman Plaza apartment . 
Mr. and Mrs. Merrill Shoup have returned to their home in Colorado Springs after spending a few days at the Brown Palace Hotel . 
Brig. Gen. and Mrs. Robert F. McDermott will entertain at a black tie dinner Wednesday , May 3 , in the Officers' Club at the Air Force Academy . 
Cocktail party Mr. and Mrs. Piero De Luise will honor Italian Consul and Mrs. Emilio Bassi at a cocktail party Tuesday , May 2 , from 6 to 8 p.m. in their home . 
The Bassis are leaving soon for their new post . 
There will be a stag dinner Friday evening at the Denver Country Club which will precede the opening of the 1961 golf season . 
Cocktails will be served from 6 to 7 p.m. , with dinner at 7 and entertainment in the main dining room immediately following . 
Miss Betsy Parker was one of the speakers on the panel of the Eastern Women's Liberal Arts College panel on Wednesday evening in the Security Life Bldg. . 
Guests were juniors in the public high schools . 
Fashion show The committee for the annual Central City fashion show has been announced by Mrs. D. W. Moore , chairman . 
The event , staged yearly by Neusteters , will be held in the Opera House Wednesday , Aug. 16 . 
It will be preceded by luncheon in the Teter House . 
Mrs. Roger Mead is head of the luncheon table decorations . 
Mrs. Stanley Wright is ticket chairman and Mrs. Theodore Pate is in charge of publicity . 
Members of the committee include Mrs. Milton Bernet , Mrs. J. Clinton Bowman , Mrs. Rollie W. Bradford , Mrs. Samuel Butler Jr. , Mrs. Donald Carr Campbell , Mrs. Douglas Carruthers , Mrs. John C. Davis 3 , , Mrs. Cris Dobbins , Mrs. William E. Glass , Mrs. Alfred Hicks 2 , , Mrs. Donald Magarrell , Mrs. Willett Moore , Mrs. Myron Neusteter , Mrs. Richard Gibson Smith , Mrs. James S. Sudier 2 , and Mrs. Thomas Welborn . 
The first committee meeting will be held on May 19 . 
Mr. and Mrs. Andrew S. Kelsey of Washington , D.C. , announce the birth of a daughter , Kira Ann Kelsey , on Monday in Washington , D.C. . 
Grandparents are Mr. and Mrs. R.L. Rickenbaugh and Mr. and Mrs. E.O. Kelsey of Scarsdale , N.Y. . 
Mrs. Kelsey is the former Miss Ann Rickenbaugh . 
A cheery smile , a compassionate interest in others and a practical down-to-earth approach . 
Those qualities make Esther Marr a popular asset at the Salvation Army's Social Center at 1200 Larimer St. . 
The pert , gray-haired woman who came to Denver three years ago from Buffalo , N.Y. , is a `` civilian '' with the Army . 
Her position covers a number of daily tasks common to any social director . 
The job also covers a number of other items . 
`` Mom '' Marr , as the more than 80 men at the center call her , is the link that helps to bridge the gulf between alcoholics and the outside world and between parolees and society . 
Her day starts early , but no matter how many pressing letters there are to be written ( and during May , which is National Salvation Army Week , there are plenty ) , schedules to be made or problems to be solved , Mrs. Marr's office is always open and the welcome mat is out . 
Mrs. Marr is the first contact a Skid Row figure talks to after he decides he wants to pick himself up . 
She sees that there is a cup of steaming hot coffee awaiting him and the two chat informally as she presents the rules of the center and explains procedures . 
`` Usually at this point a man is withdrawn from society and one of my jobs is to see that he relearns to mingle with his fellow men '' , Mrs. Marr explained . 
The Denverite has worked out an entire program to achieve this using the facilities of the center . 
`` And I bum tickets to everything I can '' , she said . 
`` I've become the greatest beggar in the world '' . 
In addition to the tickets to the movies , sporting events and concerts , Mrs. Marr lines up candy and cookies because alcoholics require a lot of sweets to replace the sugar in their system . 
Mrs. Marr also has a number of parolees to `` mother '' , watching to see that they do not break their parole and that they also learn to readjust to society . 
By mid-June , millions of Americans will take to the road on vacation trips up and down and back and forth across this vast and lovely land . 
In another four weeks , with schools closed across the nation , the great all-American summer safari will be under way . 
By July 1 , six weeks from now , motel-keepers all over the nation will , by 6 p.m. , be switching on that bleak -- to motorists -- sign , `` No Vacancy '' . 
No matter how many Americans go abroad in summer , probably a hundred times as many gas up the family car , throw suitcases , kids and comic books in the back seat , and head for home . 
And where is `` home '' , that magic place of the heart ? 
Ah , that is simple . 
Home is where a man was born , reared , went to school and , most particularly , where grandma is . 
That is where we turn in the good old summertime . 
The land lies ready for the coming onslaught . 
My husband and I , a month ahead of the rush , have just finished a 7-day motor journey of 2809 miles from Tucson , Ariz. , to New York City : set for influx I can testify that motels , service and comfort stations ( they go together like Scots and heather ) , dog wagons , roadside restaurants , souvenir stands and snake farms are braced and waiting . 
I hope it can be said without boasting that no other nation offers its vacationing motorists such variety and beauty of scene , such an excellent network of roads on which to enjoy it and such decent , far-flung over-night accommodations . 
Maybe motel-keeping isn't the nation's biggest industry , but it certainly looks that way from the highway . 
There are motels for all purposes and all tastes . 
There are even motels for local weather peculiarities in Shamrock , Tex. , as I discovered . 
There the Royal Motel advertises `` all facilities , vented heat , air conditioned , carpeted , free TV , storm cellar '' . 
Many with pools Innumerable motels from Tucson to New York boast swimming pools ( `` swim at your own risk '' is the hospitable sign poised at the brink of most pools ) . 
Some even boast two pools , one for adults and one for children . 
But the Royal Motel in Shamrock was the only one that offered the comfort and security of a storm cellar . 
Motorists like myself who can remember the old `` tourists accommodated '' signs on farm houses and village homes before World War 2 , can only marvel at the great size and the luxury of the relatively new and fast-grossing motel business . 
All for $14 ! 
At the Boxwood Motel in Winchester , Va. , we accidentally drew the honeymoon suite , an elegant affair with wall-to-wall carpeting , gold and white furniture , pink satin brocade chairs , 24-inch TV and a pink tile bath with masses of pink towels . 
All for $14 . 
That made up for the `` best '' motel in Norman , Okla. , where the proprietor knocked $2 off the $8.50 tab when we found ants in the pressed-paper furniture . 
Oxnard , Calif. , will be the home of the Rev. Robert D. Howard and his bride , the former Miss Judith Ellen Gay , who were married Saturday at the Munger Place Methodist Church . 
Parents of the bride are Mr. and Mrs. Ferris M. Gay , 7034 Coronado . 
The bridegroom is the son of Mrs. James Baines of Los Angeles , Calif. , and Carl E. Howard of Santa Monica , Calif. . 
He is a graduate of UCLA and Perkins School of Theology , Aj . 
Dr. W. B. I. Martin officiated , and the bride was given in marriage by her father . 
Honor attendants for the couple were Miss Sandra Branum and Warren V. McRoberts . 
The couple will honeymoon in Sequoia National Park , Calif. . 
Miss Joan Frances Baker , a graduate of SMU , was married Saturday to Elvis Leonard Mason , an honor graduate of Lamar State College of Technology , in the chapel of the First Presbyterian Church of Houston . 
The bride , daughter of Rhodes Semmes Baker Jr. of Houston and the late Mrs. Baker , was president of Kappa Kappa Gamma and a member of Mortar Board at Aj . 
Her husband , who is the son of Alton John Mason of Shreveport , La. , and the late Mrs. Henry Cater Parmer , was president of Alpha Tau Omega and a member of Delta Sigma Pi at Lamar Tech , and did graduate work at Rhodes University in Grahamstown , South Africa , on a Rotary Fellowship . 
The Rev. Richard Freeman of Texas City officiated and Charles Pabor and Mrs. Marvin Hand presented music . 
The bride was given in marriage by her father . 
She wore a court-length gown of organdy designed with bateau neckline and princesse skirt accented by lace appliques . 
Her veil was caught to a crown , and she carried gardenias and stephanotis . 
Miss Mary Ross of Baird was maid of honor , and bridesmaids were Miss Pat Dawson of Austin , Mrs. Howard M. Dean of Hinsdale , Ill. , and Mrs. James A. Reeder of Shreveport , La. . 
Cecil Mason of Hartford , Conn. , was best man for his brother , and groomsmen were Rhodes S. Baker 3 , of Houston , Dr. James Carter of Houston and Conrad McEachern of New Orleans , La. . 
Lee Jackson and Ken Smith , both of Houston , and Alfred Neumann of Beaumont seated guests . 
After a reception at The Mayfair , the newlyweds left for a wedding trip to New Orleans , La. . 
They will live in Corpus Christi . 
Miss Shirley Joan Meredith , a former student of North Texas State University , was married Saturday to Larry W. Mills , who has attended Arlington State College . 
They will live at 2705 Fitzhugh after a wedding trip to Corpus Christi . 
Parents of the couple are Ray Meredith of Denton and the late Mrs. Meredith and Mrs. Hardy P. Mills of Floresville and the late Mr. Mills . 
The Rev. Melvin Carter officiated at the ceremony in Slaughter Chapel of the First Baptist Church . 
Dan Beam presented music and the bride was given in marriage by her father . 
She wore a gown of satin designed along princesse lines and featuring a flared skirt and lace jacket with bateau neckline . 
Her veil was caught to a pearl headdress , and she carried stephanotis and orchids . 
Miss Glenda Kay Meredith of Denton was her sister's maid of honor , and Vernon Lewelleyn of San Angelo was best man . 
Robert Lovelace and Cedric Burgher Jr. seated guests . 
A reception was held at the church . 
The First Christian Church of Pampa was the setting for the wedding last Sunday of Miss Marcile Marie Glison and Thomas Earl Loving Jr. , who will live at 8861 Gaston after a wedding trip to New Orleans , La. The bride , daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Charles Ervin Glison of Pampa , has attended Texas Woman's University and will continue her studies at Aj . 
`` A Night in New Orleans '' is the gayety planned by members of the Thrift Shop Committee for May 6 at Philmont Country Club . 
The women have a reputation for giving parties that are different and are fun and this year's promises to follow in this fine tradition . 
Mrs. H. J. Grinsfelder is chairman . 
The Louisiana city is known , of course , for its fine food , good music and its colorful hospitality `` and , when guests arrive at Philmont that night '' , says Mrs. Grinsfelder , `` that is exactly what we expect to offer them . 
We've been working for weeks . 
The prospects look great . 
We are keeping a number of surprises under our hats . 
But we can't tell it all now and then have no new excitement later '' . 
Basin Street Beat But she does indicate festivities will start early , that a jazz combo will `` give with the Basin Street beat '' during the cocktail and dinner hours and that Lester Lanin's orchestra will take over during the dancing . 
As for food , Mrs. Henry Louchheim , chairman of this phase , is a globetrotter who knows good food . 
`` New Orleans '' ? 
She says , `` of course I've had the best . 
It is just bad luck that we are having the party in a month with no R's , so no oysters . 
But we have lots of other New Orleans specialties . 
I know they will be good . 
We've tried them out on the club chef -- or say , he has tried them out on us and we have selected the best '' . 
Scenic effects Guests will be treated to Gulf Coast scenic effects . 
There will be masses of flowers , reproductions of the handsome old buildings with their grillwork and other things that are typical of New Orleans . 
Mrs. Harry K. Cohen is chairman of this phase and she is getting an artistic assist from A. Van Hollander , display director of Gimbel Brothers . 
The gala is the Thrift Shop's annual bundle party and , as all Thrift Shop friends know , that means the admission is a bundle of used clothing in good condition , contributions of household equipment , bric-a-brac and such to stock the shelves at the shop's headquarters at 1213 Walnut St. . 
Bundle centers For the convenience of guests bundle centers have been established throughout the city and suburbs where the donations may be deposited between now and the date of the big event . 
In addition to the bundles , guests pay the cost of their dinners . 
Members of the young set who would like to come to the party only during the dancing time are welcomed . 
The Thrift Shop , with Mrs. Bernhard S. Blumenthal as president , is one of the city's most successful fund-raisers for the Federation of Jewish Agencies . 
Some idea of the competence of the women is indicated in the contribution made by them during the past 25 years that totals $840,000 . 
It's big business `` Big business , this little Thrift Shop business '' , say the members . 
For most of the 25 years the operation was under feminine direction . 
In the past few years the men , mostly husbands of members , have taken an interest . 
Louis Glazer is chairman of the men's committee that , among other jobs , takes over part of the responsibility for staffing the shop during its evening hours . 
Mrs. Theodore Kapnek is vice chairman of the committee for the gala . 
Mrs. Richard Newburger is chairman of hostesses . 
Mrs. Arthur Loeb is making arrangements for a reception ; ; Mrs. Joan Lichtenstein , for publicity ; ; Mrs. Harry M. Rose , Jr. , for secretarial duties ; ; Mrs. Ralph Taussig , for junior aides ; ; Mr. and Mrs. B. Lewis Kaufnabb , for senior aides , and Mrs. Samuel P. Weinberg , for the bundles . 
In addition , Mr. and Mrs. Allan Goodman are controllers , Mrs. Paul Stone is treasurer and Mrs. Albert Quell is in charge of admittance for the dancing at 9 P.m. . 
Besides the bundle centers where contributions may be made there will be facilities at Philmont Country Club for those who would like to bring the bundles on the night of the party . 
The women's committee of St. David's Church will hold its annual pre-Fair pink parade , a dessert bridge and fashion show at 1 p.m. on Monday , April 17 , in the chapel assembly room , Wayne . 
Mrs. Robert O. Spurdle is chairman of the committee , which includes Mrs. James A. Moody , Mrs. Frank C. Wilkinson , Mrs. Ethel Coles , Mrs. Harold G. Lacy , Mrs. Albert W. Terry , Mrs. Henry M. Chance , 2d , Mrs. Robert O. Spurdle , Jr. , Mrs. Harcourt N. Trimble , Jr. , Mrs. John A. Moller , Mrs. Robert Zeising , Mrs. William G. Kilhour , Mrs. Hughes Cauffman , Mrs. John L. Baringer and Mrs. Clyde Newman . 
The fashion show , by Natalie Collett will have Mrs. John Newbold as commentator . 
Models will be Mrs. Samuel B. D. Baird , Mrs. William H. Meyle , Jr. , Mrs. Richard W. Hole , Mrs. William F. Harrity , Mrs. Robert O. Spurdle , Mrs. E. H. Kloman , Mrs. Robert W. Wolcott , Jr. , Mrs. Frederick C. Wheeler , Jr. , Mrs. William A Boyd , Mrs F. Vernon Putt . 
Col. Clifton Lisle , of Chester Springs , who headed the Troop Committee for much of its second and third decades , is now an honorary member . 
Each year he invites the boys to camp out on his estate for one of their big week ends of the year . 
The Troop is proud of its camping-out program -- on year-round schedule and was continued even when sub-zero temperatures were registered during the past winter . 
`` We worry '' , say the mothers . 
`` But there never is any need . 
The boys love it '' . 
Mrs. John Charles Cotty is chairman of publicity for the country fair and Mrs. Francis G. Felske and Mrs. Francis Smythe , of posters . 
They all are of Wayne . 
`` Meet the Artist '' is the invitation issued by members of the Greater Philadelphia Section of the National Council of Jewish Women as they arrange for an annual exhibit and sale of paintings and sculpture at the Philmont Country Club on April 8 and 9 . 
A preview party for sponsors of the event and for the artists is set for April 8 . 
The event will be open to the public the following day . 
Proceeds will be used by the section to further its program in science , education and social action on local , national and international levels . 
Noted artist Mrs. Monte Tyson , chairman , says the work of 100 artists well known in the Delaware Valley area will be included in the exhibition and sale . 
Among them will be Marc Shoettle , Ben Shahn , Nicholas Marsicano , Alfred Van Loen and Milton Avery . 
Mr. Shoettle has agreed to do a portrait of the family of the person who wins the door prize . 
The event is the sixth on the annual calendar of the local members of the National Council of Jewish Women . 
It originated with the Wissahickon Section . 
When this and other units combined to form the present group , it was taken on as a continuing fund-raiser . 
Others assisting Mrs. Jerome Blum and Mrs. Meyer Schultz are co-chairmen this year . 
Assisting as chairmen of various committees are Mrs. Alvin Blum , Mrs. Leonard Malmud , Mrs. Edward Fernberger , Mrs. Robert Cushman . 
Also Mrs. Berton Korman , Mrs. Morton Rosen , Mrs. Jacques Zinman , Mrs. Evelyn Rosen , Mrs. Henry Schultz , Mr. and Mrs. I. S. Kamens , Mrs. Jack Langsdorf , Mrs. Leonard Liss , Mrs. Gordon Blumberg , Mrs. Oscar Bregman , Mrs. Alfred Kershbaum and Mrs. Edward Sabol . 
Dr. and Mrs. N. Volney Ludwick have had as guests Mr. and Mrs. John J. Evans , Jr. , of `` Kimbolton House '' , Rockhall , Md. . 
Mrs. Edward App will entertain the members of her Book Club on Tuesday . 
Mrs. A. Voorhees Anderson entertained at a luncheon at her home , on Monday . 
Mr. and Mrs. Anderson were entertained at dinner on Sunday by Mr. and Mrs. Frank Coulson , of Fairless Hills . 
Mr. and Mrs. Major Morris and their son-in-law and daughter , Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Glennon , and their children will spend several days in Brigantine , N. J. . 
Mr. and Mrs. James Janssen announce the birth of a daughter , Patricia Lynn Janssen , on March 2 . 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Marella announce the engagement of their daughter , Miss Mary Ann Marella , to Mr. Robert L. Orcutt , son of Mr. and Mrs. Donald R. Orcutt , of Drexel Hill . 
Miss Eileen Grant is spending several weeks visiting in Florida . 
Mr. and Mrs. Frederick Heinze are entertaining Mr. Walter Lehner , of Vienna ; ; Mr. Ingo Dussa , of Dusseldorf , Germany , and Mr. Bietnar Haaek , of Brelin . 
Mr. and Mrs. Harry D. Hoaps , Jr. have returned to their home in Drexel Park , after spending some time in Delray Beach Fla. . 
Mr. and Mrs. James F. Mitchell , with their daughter , Anne , and son , James , Jr. are spending several weeks in Florida , and will visit in Clearwater . 
Cmdr. Warren Taylor , USN. , and Mrs. Taylor , of E. Greenwich , R. I. , will have with them for the Easter holidays the latter's parents , Mr. and Mrs. John B. Walbridge , of Drexel Hill . 
Mr. and Mrs. L. DeForest Emmert , formerly of Drexel Hill , and now of Newtown Square , are entertaining Mr. and Mrs. Ashman E. Emmert , of Temple , Pa. . 
Mrs. William H. Merner , of Drexel Park , entertained at a luncheon at her home on Wednesday . 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Brown will return next week from Bermuda . 
Mrs. H. E. Godwin will entertain the members of her Book Club at her home on Tuesday . 
Dr. and Mrs. Richard Peter Vieth announce the engagement of their daughter , Miss Susan Ann Vieth , to Mr. Conrad Wall 3 , , son of Dr. Conrad Wall 2 , , and Mrs. Nell Kennedy Wall . 
The marriage will be quietly celebrated in early February . 
Miss Vieth was graduated from the Louise S. McGehee school and is attending Wellesley College in Wellesley , Mass. . 
Her mother is the former Miss Stella Hayward . 
Mr. Wall is a student at Tulane university , where he is a member of Delta Kappa Epsilon fraternity . 
Their Majesties , The Queen of Carnival and The Queen of Comus , have jointly issued invitations for Shrove Tuesday evening at midnight at which time they will entertain in the grand ballroom of a downtown hotel following the balls of Rex and Comus . 
Mr. and Mrs. Richard B. McConnell and their son-in-law and daughter , Mr. and Mrs. Raymond B. Walker will be hosts this Tuesday evening at dinner at the State St. home of the Walkers honoring Mrs. McConnell's debutante niece , Miss Barbara Williams . 
Debutante Miss Lady Helen Hardy will be feted at luncheon this Tuesday at which the hostess will be Mrs. Edwin Socola of Waveland , Miss. . 
She will entertain at a Vieux Carre restaurant at 1 o'clock in the early afternoon . 
Another debutante , Miss Virginia Richmond , will also be the honoree this Wednesday at luncheon at which Mrs. John Dane , will be hostess entertaining at a downtown hotel . 
Miss Katherine Vickery , who attends Sweet Briar College in Virginia , will rejoin her father , Dr. Eugene Vickery , at the family home in Richmond pl. Wednesday for part of the Carnival festivities . 
When the Achaeans entertained Wednesday last at their annual Carnival masquerade ball , Miss Margaret Pierson was chosen to rule over the festivities , presented at the Muncipal Auditorium and chosen as her ladies in waiting were Misses Clayton Nairne , Eleanor Eustis , Lynn Chapman , Irwin Leatherman of Robinsonville , Miss. and Helene Rowley . 
The large municipal hall was ablaze with color , which shown out from the bright array of chic ballgowns worn by those participating in the `` maskers' dances '' . 
The mother of young queen , Mrs. G. Henry Pierson Jr. chose a white brocade gown made on slim lines with panels of tomato-red and bright green satin extending down the back . 
Mrs. Thomas Jordan selected a black taffeta frock made with a skirt of fringed tiers and worn with crimson silk slippers . 
Mrs. Clayton Nairne , whose daughter , was among the court maids , chose a deep greenish blue lace gown . 
Mrs. Fenwick Eustis , whose daughter was also a maid to the queen , wore an ashes of roses slipper satin gown . 
Mrs. Peter Feringa Jr. , last year's Achaeans' queen , chose an eggshell white filmy lace short dress made with a wide decolletage trimmed with an edging of tulle . 
Mrs. Eustis Reily's olive-green street length silk taffeta dress was embroidered on the bodice with gold threads and golden sequins and beads . 
The Baltimore and Ohio Railroad announced yesterday it would reduce the total amount of its payroll by 10 per cent through salary cuts and lay-offs effective at 12:01 A.M. next Saturday . 
The current monthly payroll comes to about $15,000,000 . 
Howard E. Simpson , the railroad's president , said , `` A drastic decline in freight loading due principally to the severe slump in the movement of heavy goods has necessitated this regrettable action '' . 
The reduction in expenses will affect employees in the thirteen states in which the B. & O. operates . 
Salary cut and lay-offs It will be accomplished in two ways : 1 A flat reduction of 10 per cent in the salary of all officers , supervisors and other employees not belonging to unions . 
There are about 3,325 officers and employees in this class . 
2 Sufficient lay-offs of union employees to bring about a 10 per cent cut in the union payroll expense . 
Since the railroad cannot reduce the salary of individual union members under contract , it must accomplish its payroll reduction by placing some of the men on furlough , a B. & O. spokesman said . 
Those union members kept on their jobs , therefore , will not take a cut in their wages . 
The spokesman said the number to be furloughed cannot be estimated since the lay-offs must be carried out in each area depending on what men are most needed on the job . 
A thug struck a cab driver in the face with a pistol last night after robbing him of $18 at Franklin and Mount Streets . 
The victim , Norman B. Wiley , 38 , of the 900 block North Charles Street , was treated for cuts at Franklin Square Hospital after the robbery . 
The driver told police he followed as the Negro man got out of the cab with his money . 
The victim was beaten when he attempted to stop the bandit . 
He said the assailant , who was armed with a automatic , entered the taxi at Pennsylvania Avenue and Gold Street . 
In another attack , Samuel Verstandig , 41 , proprietor of a food store in the 2100 block Aiken Street , told police two Negroes assaulted him in his store and stole $150 from the cash register after choking and beating him . 
A baby was burned to death and two other children were seriously injured last night in a fire which damaged their one-room Anne Arundel county home . 
The victim Darnell Somerville , Negro , 1 , was pronounced dead on arrival at Anne Arundel General Hospital in Annapolis . 
His sister and brother , Marie Louise , 3 , and John Raymond , Jr. 22 months , were admitted to the hospital . 
The girl was in critical condition with burns over 90 per cent of her body . 
Boy in fair condition The boy received second-degree burns of the face , neck and back . 
His condition was reported to be fair . 
Police said the children's mother , Mrs. Eleanor Somerville , was visiting next door when the fire occurred . 
The house is on Old Annapolis road a mile south of Severna Park , at Jones Station , police said . 
Annapolis , Jan. 7 -- The Anne Arundel county school superintendent has asked that the Board of Education return to the practice of recording its proceedings mechanically so that there will be no more question about who said what . 
The proposal was made by Dr. David S. Jenkins after he and Mrs. D. Ellwood Williams , Jr. , a board member and long-time critic of the superintendent , argued for about fifteen minutes at this week's meeting . 
The disagreement was over what Dr. Jenkins had said at a previous session and how his remarks appeared in the minutes presented at the following meeting . 
Cites discrepancies Mrs. Williams had a list which she said contained about nine or ten discrepancies between her memory of Dr. Jenkins's conversation and how they were written up for the board's approval . 
`` I hate to have these things come up again and again '' , Dr. Jenkins commented as he made his suggestion . 
`` These are the board's minutes . 
I'll write what you tell me to '' . 
For a number of years the board used a machine to keep a permanent record but abandoned the practice about two years ago . 
It was about that time , a board member said later , that Dr. Thomas G. Pullen , Jr. , State superintendent of schools , told Dr. Jenkins and a number of other education officials that he would not talk to them with a recording machine sitting in front of him . 
The Board of County Commissioners , the Sanitary Commission , the Planning and Zoning Board and other county official bodies use recording machines for all public business in order to prevent law suits and other misunderstandings about what actually happened at their meetings . 
Dr. Jenkins notes , however , that most of the school boards in the State do not do so . 
State Senator Joseph A. Bertorelli ( D. , First Baltimore ) had a stroke yesterday while in his automobile in the 200 block of West Pratt Street . 
He was taken to University Hospital in a municipal ambulance . 
Doctors at the hospital said he was partially paralyzed on the right side . 
His condition was said to be , `` fair '' . 
Police said he became ill while parked in front of a barber shop at 229 West Pratt Street . 
Barber summoned He called Vincent L. Piraro , proprietor of the shop , who summoned police and an ambulance . 
The vice president of the City Council complained yesterday that there are `` deficiencies '' in the city's snow clearing program which should be corrected as soon as possible . 
Councilman William D. Schaefer ( D. , Fifth ) said in a letter to Mayor Grady that plowing and salting crews should be dispatched earlier in storms and should be kept on the job longer than they were last month . 
Werner criticized Conceding that several cities to the north were in worse shape than Baltimore after the last storm , Mr. Schaefer listed several improvements he said should be made in the snow plan here . 
He said the snow plan was put in effect too slowly in December . 
Equipment should be in operation `` almost immediately after the first snowfall '' , Mr. Schaefer said . 
The Councilman , who is the Administration floor leader , also criticized Bernard L. Werner , public works director , for `` halting snow operations '' on Tuesday night after the Sunday storm . 
Sent home for rest Mr. Werner said yesterday that operations continued through the week . 
What he did , Mr. Werner said , was let manual laborers go home Tuesday night for some rest . 
Work resumed Wednesday , he said . 
Mr. Schaefer also recommended that the snow emergency route plan , under which parking is banned on key streets and cars are required to use snow tires or chains on them , should be `` strictly enforced '' . 
Admitting that main streets and the central business district should have priority , the Councilman said it is also essential that small shopping areas `` not be overlooked if our small merchants are to survive '' . 
Recounting personal observations of clearance work , the Councilman cited instances of inefficient use of equipment or supplies by poorly trained workers and urged that plow blades be set so they do not leave behind a thin layer of snow which eventually freezes . 
Annapolis , Jan. 7 ( special ) -- The 15-year-old adopted son of a Washington attorney and his wife , who were murdered early today in their Chesapeake Bay-front home , has been sent to Spring Grove State Hospital for detention . 
The victims were H. Malone Dresbach , 47 , and his wife , Shirley , 46 . 
Each had been shot in the back several times with a automatic rifle , according to Capt. Elmer Hagner , chief of Anne Arundel detectives . 
Judge Benjamin Michaelson signed the order remanding the boy to the hospital because of the lack of juvenile accommodations at the Anne Arundel County Jail . 
The Circuit Court jurist said the boy will have a hearing in Juvenile Court . 
Younger son calls police Soon after 10 A.M. , when police reached the 1-1/2-story brick home in the Franklin Manor section , 15 miles south of here on the bay , in response to a call from the Dresbach's other son , Lee , 14 , they found Mrs. Dresbach's body on the first-floor bedroom floor . 
Her husband was lying on the kitchen floor , police said . 
The younger son told police his brother had run from the house after the shootings and had driven away in their mother's car . 
The description of the car was immediately broadcast throughout Southern Maryland on police radio . 
Two brothers adopted Police said the boys are natural brothers and were adopted as small children by the Dresbachs . 
Trooper J. A. Grzesiak spotted the wanted car , with three boys , at a Route 2 service station , just outside Annapolis . 
The driver admitted he was the Dresbachs' son and all three were taken to the Edgewater Station , police said . 
Annapolis , Jan. 7 -- Governor Tawes today appointed Lloyd L. Simpkins , his administrative assistant , as Maryland's Secretary of State . 
Mr. Simpkins will move into the post being vacated by Thomas B. Finan , earlier named Attorney General to succeed C. Ferdinand Sybert , who will be elevated to an associate judgeship on the Maryland Court of Appeals . 
Governor Tawes announced that a triple swearing-in ceremony will be held in his office next Friday . 
Simpkins from Somerset Mr. Simpkins is a resident of Somerset county , and he and the Governor , also a Somerset countian , have been friends since Mr. Simpkins was a child . 
Now 38 , Mr. Simpkins was graduated from the University of Maryland's College of Agriculture in 1947 . 
Five years later , he was awarded the university's degree in law . 
Mr. Simpkins made a name for himself as a member of the House of Delegates from 1951 through 1958 . 
From the outset of his first term , he established himself as one of the guiding spirits of the House of Delegates . 
Maryland contracts for future construction during October totaled $77,389,000 , up to 10 per cent compared to October , 1960 , F. W. Dodge , Dodge Corporation , reported . 
Dodge reported the following breakdown : Nonresidential at $20,447,000 , down 28 per cent ; ; residential at $47,101,000 , up 100 per cent ; ; and heavy engineering at $9,841,000 , down 45 per cent . 
The cumulative total of construction contracts for the first ten months of 1961 amounted to $634,517,000 , a 4 per cent increase compared to the corresponding period of last year . 
A breakdown of the ten-month total showed : Nonresidential at $253,355,000 , up 22 per cent ; ; residential at $278,877,000 , up 12 per cent ; ; and heavy engineering at $102,285,000 , down 33 per cent . 
Residential building consists of houses , apartments , hotels , dormitories and other buildings designed for shelter . 
The share of the new housing market enjoyed by apartments , which began about six years ago , has more than tripled within that span of time . 
In 1961 , it is estimated that multiple unit dwellings will account for nearly 30 per cent of the starts in residential construction . 
While availability of mortgage money has been a factor in encouraging apartment construction , the generally high level of prosperity in the past few years plus rising consumer income are among the factors that have encouraged builders to concentrate in the apartment-building field . 
Although economic and personal circumstances vary widely among those now choosing apartments , Leo J. Pantas , vice president of a hardware manufacturing company , pointed out recently that many apartment seekers seem to have one characteristic in common : a desire for greater convenience and freedom from the problems involved in maintaining a house . 
Convenience held key `` Convenience is therefore the key to the housing market today . 
Trouble-free , long-life , quality components will play an increasingly important part in the merchandising of new housing in 1960 '' , Pantas predicted . 
Sixty-seven living units are being added to the 165-unit Harbor View Apartments in the Cherry Hill section . 
Ultimately the development will comprise 300 units , in two-story and three-story structures . 
Various of the apartments are of the terrace type , being on the ground floor so that entrance is direct . 
Others , which are reached by walking up a single flight of stairs , have balconies . 
The structures housing the apartments are of masonry and frame construction . 
Heating is by individual gas-fired , forced warm air systems . 
Construction in 1962 will account for about 15 per cent of the gross national product , according to a study by Johns-Manville Corporation . 
London , Feb. 9 -- Vital secrets of Britain's first atomic submarine , the Dreadnought , and , by implication , of the entire United States navy's still-building nuclear sub fleet , were stolen by a London-based soviet spy ring , secret service agents testified today . 
The Dreadnought was built on designs supplied by the United States in 1959 and was launched last year . 
It is a killer sub -- that is , a hunter of enemy subs . 
It has a hull patterned on that of the United States navy's Nautilus , the world's first atomic submarine . 
Its power unit , however , was derived from the reactor of the more modern American nuclear submarine Skipjack . 
Five held for trial The announcement that the secrets of the Dreadnought had been stolen was made in Bow St. police court here at the end of a three day hearing . 
A full trial was ordered for : Two British civil servants , Miss Ethel Gee , 46 , and her newly devoted friend , Harry Houghton , 55 , and divorced . 
They are accused of whisking secrets out of naval strongrooms over which they kept guard . 
Gordon A. Lonsdale , 37 , a mystery man presumed to be Russian although he carries a Canadian passport . 
When arrested , he had the submarine secrets on a roll of candid camera film as well as anti-submarine secrets in Christmas gift wrapping , it was testified . 
Flashed to Moscow A shadowy couple who call themselves Peter Kroger , bookseller , and wife , Joyce . 
( In Washington , the Federal Bureau of Investigation identified the Krogers as Morris and Lola Cohen , an American couple formerly of New York City ) . 
In their suburban cottage the crown charges , the Krogers received secrets from the mystery man , usually on the first Saturday evening of each month , and spent much of the week-end getting the secrets off to Moscow , either on a powerful transmitter buried under the kitchen floor or as dots posted over period marks in used books . 
Each dot on magnification resumed its original condition as a drawing , a printed page , or a manuscript . 
All five pleaded innocent . 
Only Miss Gee asked for bail . 
Her young British lawyer , James Dunlop , pleaded that she was sorely needed at her Portland home by her widowed mother , 80 , her maiden aunt , also 80 and bedridden for 20 years , and her uncle , 76 , who once ran a candy shop . 
Refuses to grant bail `` I am not prepared to grant bail to any of them '' , said the magistrate , K.J.P. Baraclough . 
The trial will be held , probably the first week of March , in the famous Old Bailey central criminal court where Klaus Fuchs , the naturalized British German born scientist who succeeded in giving American and British atomic bomb secrets to Russia and thereby changed world history during the 1950s , was sentenced to 14 years in prison . 
Fourteen years is the maximum penalty now faced by the new five , who may have altered history in the 1960s . 
Fuchs , after nine and a half years , was released , being given time off for good behavior . 
He promptly went to communist East Germany . 
The magistrate tonight refused to return to the five $29,000 in American and British currency , mostly $20 bills , and in British government bonds and stocks . 
`` This is Russian money '' , said Mervin Griffith-Jones for the attorney general's office . 
He asserted that the Krogers were the bankers for Moscow , Lonsdale the Red paymaster , and the two civil servants the recipients for selling their country's secrets . 
`` Of highest value '' The fact that secrets of the Dreadnought , and thereby of the American undersea fleet , were involved in the spy case had been hinted at earlier . 
But just before luncheon today the fact was announced grimly by the British navy's chief adviser to the cabinet on underwater warfare , Capt. George Symonds . 
He said that drawings of the Dreadnought and printed details about the ship were found reproduced in an undeveloped roll of film taken from Lonsdale when he was arrested with the two civil servants outside the Old Vic theater Saturday afternoon , Jan. 7 . 
The information , he said , would have been of the highest value to a potential enemy . 
Court cleared Just how many sub secrets were being handed over when the ring , watched for six months , was broken remained untold . 
The British defending lawyers , who today increased from three to four , demanded to know if they could make the information involved seem of little value to a jury , the chances of their clients would improve . 
So in the name of justice the magistrate cleared the court of all except officials to allow the captain to elaborate for almost an hour . 
Almost any information about the Dreadnought would also reveal secrets about the American underwater fleet . 
Britain began designing the ship in 1956 but got nowhere until the American government decided to end a ban on sharing military secrets with Britain that had been imposed after Fuchs blabbed . 
The United States offered to supply a complete set of propelling equipment like that used in the Skipjack . 
With the machinery went a complete design for the hull . 
The Skipjack was a second generation atomic sub , much advanced on the Nautilus and the other four which preceded it . 
Navy's future involved `` Much of the navy's future depends upon her '' , an American naval announcement said on the Skipjack's first arrival in British waters in August , 1959 , for exhibition to selected high officers at Portland underwater research station . 
It was there that the two accused civil servants were at work . 
`` Her basic hull form ( a teardrop ) and her nuclear power plant will be used for almost all new submarines , including the potent Polaris missile submarines '' , the statement went on . 
The atom reactor , water cooled , was the result of almost a decade of research at the naval reactors branch of the atomic energy commission and Westinghouse Electric Corp. . 
Thru development , the reactor and its steam turbines had been reduced greatly in size , and also in complexity , allowing a single propeller to be used , the navy said . 
The hull was also a result of almost a decade of work . 
It was first tried out on a conventional submarine , the Albacore , in 1954 . 
The Skipjack became the fastest submarine ever built . 
Reputedly it could outrun , underwater , the fastest destroyers . 
It could , reputedly , go 70,000 miles without refueling and stay down more than a month . 
It was of the hunter-killer type , designed to seek out ships and other submarines with its most advanced gear and destroy them with torpedoes . 
The navy captain disclosed also that a list of questions found in Miss Gee's purse would , if completed and handed back , have given the Kremlin a complete picture `` of our current anti-submarine effort and would have shown what we are doing in research and development for the future '' . 
Interested in detector The spy ring also was particularly interested in ASDIC , the underwater equipment for detecting submarines , it was testified . 
Range was a vital detail . 
Designs of parts were sought . 
Six radiomen told how , twice on two days after the ring was nabbed , a transmitter near Moscow was heard calling , using signals , times and wavelengths specified on codes found hidden in cigaret lighters in Lonsdale's apartment and the Krogers' house and also fastened to the transmitter lid . 
Oddly , the calls were still heard 11 days after the five were arrested . 
The charge that the federal indictment of three Chicago narcotics detail detectives `` is the product of rumor , combined with malice , and individual enmity '' on the part of the federal narcotics unit here was made yesterday in their conspiracy trial before Judge Joseph Sam Perry in federal District court . 
The three -- Miles J. Cooperman , Sheldon Teller , and Richard Austin -- and eight other defendants are charged in six indictments with conspiracy to violate federal narcotic laws . 
In his opening statement to a jury of eight women and four men , Bernard H. Sokol , attorney for the detectives , said that evidence would show that his clients were `` entirely innocent '' . 
' had to know peddlers ' `` When they became members of the city police narcotics unit '' , Sokol said , `` they were told they would have to get to know certain areas of Chicago in which narcotics were sold and they would have to get to know people in the narcotics racket . 
They , on occasion , posed as addicts and peddlers '' . 
Although federal and city narcotic agents sometimes worked together , Sokol continued , rivalries developed when they were `` aiming at the same criminals '' . 
This , he added , brought about `` petty jealousies '' and `` petty personal grievances '' . 
`` In the same five year period that the United States says they ( the detectives ) were engaged in this conspiracy '' , Sokol continued , `` these three young men received a total of 26 creditable mentions and many special compensations , and were nominated for the Lambert Tree award and the mayor's medal '' . 
No comments by U.S. In opening , D. Arthur Connelly , assistant United States attorney , read the indictment , but made no comments . 
Attorneys for the eight other defendants said only that there was no proof of their clients' guilt . 
Cooperman and Teller are accused of selling $4,700 worth of heroin to a convicted narcotics peddler , Otis Sears , 45 , of 6934 Indiana Av. . 
Among other acts , Teller and Austin are accused of paying $800 to Sears . 
The first witness , Moses Winston Mardis , 5835 Michigan Av. , a real estate agent and former bail bondsman , took the stand after opening statements had been made . 
But court adjourned after he testified he introduced James White and Jeremiah Hope Pullings , two of the defendants , and also introduced Pullings to Jessy Maroy , a man mentioned in the indictment but not indicted . 
Buaford Robinson , 23 , of 7026 Stewart Av. , a CTA bus driver , was slugged and robbed last night by a group of youths at 51st Street and South Park Way . 
Robinson was treated at a physician's office for a cut over his left eyebrow and a possible sprained knee . 
His losses included his money bag , containing $40 to $50 and his $214 paycheck . 
Robinson told Policemen James Jones and Morgan Lloyd of the Wabash Avenue district that 10 youths boarded his south bound express bus in front of Dunbar Vocational High School , 30th Street and South Park Way , and began `` skylarking '' . 
When 51st Street was reached , Robinson related , he stopped the bus and told the youths he was going to call the CTA supervisor . 
As he left the bus with his money bag , Robinson added , the largest youth accosted him , a quarrel ensued , and the youth knocked him down . 
Then the youths fled with his money . 
Mrs. Blanche Dunkel , 60 , who has spent 25 years in the Dwight reformatory for women for the murder in 1935 of her son-in-law , Ervin Lang , then 28 , appealed for a parole at a hearing yesterday before two Illinois pardon and parole board members , John M. Bookwalter and Joseph Carpentier . 
She had been sentenced to 180 years in prison , but former Gov. Stratton commuted her term to 75 years , making her eligible for parole , as one of his last acts in office . 
Mrs. Dunkel admitted the slaying and said that the son-in-law became her lover after the death of her daughter in 1934 . 
It was when he attempted to end the relationship that the murder took place . 
The son of a wealthy Evanston executive was fined $100 yesterday and forbidden to drive for 60 days for leading an Evanston policeman on a high speed chase over icy Evanston and Wilmette streets Jan. 20 . 
The defendant , William L. Stickney 3 , 23 , of 3211 Park pl. , Evanston , who pleaded guilty to reckless driving , also was ordered by Judge James Corcoran to attend the Evanston traffic school each Tuesday night for one month . 
Stickney is a salesman for Plee-Zing , Inc. , 2544 Green Bay Rd. , Evanston , a food brokerage and grocery chain firm , of which his father , William L. Jr. , is president . 
Patrolman James F. Simms said he started in pursuit when he saw young Stickney speeding north in Stewart Avenue at Central Street . 
At Jenks Street , Simms said , the car skidded completely around , just missed two parked cars , and sped east in Jenks . 
The car spun around again , Simms said , before Stickney could turn north in Prairie Avenue , and then violated two stop lights as he traveled north into Wilmette in Prairie . 
St. Johns , Mich. , April 19 . 
-- A jury of seven men and five women found 21-year-old Richard Pohl guilty of manslaughter yesterday in the bludgeon slaying of Mrs. Anna Hengesbach . 
Pohl received the verdict without visible emotion . 
He returned to his cell in the county jail , where he has been held since his arrest last July , without a word to his court-appointed attorney , Jack Walker , or his guard . 
Stepson vindicated The verdict brought vindication to the dead woman's stepson , Vincent Hengesbach , 54 , who was tried for the same crime in December , 1958 , and released when the jury failed to reach a verdict . 
Mrs. Hengesbach was killed on Aug. 31 , 1958 . 
Hengesbach has been living under a cloud ever since . 
When the verdict came in against his young neighbor , Hengesbach said : `` I am very pleased to have the doubt of suspicion removed . 
Still , I don't wish to appear happy at somebody else's misfortune '' . 
Lives on welfare Hengesbach , who has been living on welfare recently , said he hopes to rebuild the farm which was settled by his grandfather in Westphalia , 27 miles southwest of here . 
Hengesbach has been living in Grand Ledge since his house and barn were burned down after his release in 1958 . 
Pohl confessed the arson while being questioned about several fires in the Westphalia area by State Police . 
He also admitted killing Mrs. Hengesbach . 
However , the confession , which was the only evidence against him , was retracted before the trial . 
Charges in doubt Assistant Prosecutor Fred Lewis , who tried both the Hengesbach and Pohl cases , said he did not know what would be done about two arson charges pending against Pohl . 
Circuit Judge Paul R. Cash did not set a date for sentencing . 
Pohl could receive from 1 to 15 years in prison or probation . 
Walker said he was considering filing a motion for a new trial which would contend that the verdict was against the weight of the evidence and that there were several errors in trial procedure . 
Locked in motel A verdict against Pohl came at 4:05 p.m. after almost 13-1/2 hours of deliberation . 
The jury , which was locked up in a motel overnight , was canvassed at the request of Walker after the verdict was announced . 
The jury foreman , Mrs. Olive Heideman , of rural Elsie , said that a ballot was not even taken until yesterday morning and that the first day of deliberation was spent in going over the evidence . 
She said the jurors agreed that Pohl's confession was valid . 
The jury asked Judge Cash to send in his written definition of the difference between first and second-degree murder and manslaughter . 
The verdict came three hours later . 
Some 30 spectators remained in the court during the day and were on hand to hear the verdict read . 
The trial had packed the large courtroom for more than a week . 
A Sterling Township family of six surviving children , whose mother died yesterday as the aftermath to a fire that also killed one of the children , found today they had the help of hundreds of neighbors and school friends . 
While neighbor women assumed some of the dead mother's duties , fund-raising events were being planned by a homeowners association and a student council for the hard-hit Henry Kowalski family , 34220 Viceroy . 
Mrs. Eleanor Kowalski , 42 , died yesterday afternoon in Holy Cross Hospital of burns suffered in a fire that followed a bottled gas explosion Saturday night at the flat of her widowed mother , Mrs. Mary Pankowski , in the adjoining suburb of Warren . 
Services tomorrow Funeral services for Mrs. Kowalski and her daughter , Christine , 11 , who died of burns at the same hospital Monday , have been scheduled for 10 a.m. tomorrow in St. Anne's Catholic Church , 31978 Mound , in Warren . 
The mother and daughter , who will be buried side by side in Mt. Olivet Cemetery , rested together today in closed caskets at the Lyle Elliott Funeral Home , 31730 Mound , Warren . 
Mrs. Pankowski , 61 , remained in Holy Cross Hospital as a result of the explosion , which occurred while Mrs. Kowalski fueled a cook stove in the grandmother's small upstairs flat at 2274 Eight Mile Road East . 
Held candle Assistant Fire Chief Chester Cornell said gas fumes apparently were ignited by a candle which one of the three Kowalski girls present held for her mother , because the flat lacked electricity . 
Christine's twin sister , Patricia , and Darlene Kowalski , 8 , escaped with minor burns . 
They are home now with the other Kowalski children , Vicky , 14 ; ; Dennis , 6 ; ; Eleanor , 2 ; ; and Bernardine , 1 . 
`` All we have left in the world is one another , and we must stay together the way Mother wanted '' , Kowalski said in telling his children of their mother's death yesterday afternoon . 
Kowalski , a roofer who seldom worked last winter , already was in arrears on their recently purchased split-level home when the tragedy staggered him with medical and funeral bills . 
A135 donated Neighbor women , such as Mrs. Sidney Baker , 2269 Serra , Sterling Township , have been supplying the family with meals and handling household chores with Kowalski's sister-in-law , Mrs. Anna Kowalski , 22111 David , East Detroit . 
Another neighbor , Mrs. Frank C. Smith , 2731 Pall Mall , Sterling Township , surprised Kowalski by coming to the home yesterday with $135 collected locally toward the $400 funeral costs . 
John C. Houghton , president of the Tareytown Acres Homeowners Association , followed that by announcing plans last night for a door-to-door fund drive throughout their subdivision on behalf of the Kowalski family . 
Students help out Houghton said 6 p.m. Friday had been set for a canvass of all 480 homes in the subdivision , which is located northeast of Dequindre and 14 Mile Road East . 
He said contributions also could be mailed to Post Office Box 553 , Warren Village Station . 
Vicky Kowalski meanwhile learned that several of her fellow students had collected almost $25 for her family during the lunch hour yesterday at Fuhrmann Junior High School , 5155 Fourteen Mile road east . 
Principal Clayton W. Pohly said he would allow a further collection between classes today , and revealed that Y-Teen Club past surpluses had been used to provide a private hospital nurse Monday for Mrs. Kowalski . 
Funds from dances Student Council officers announced today the Kowalski family would be given the combined proceeds from a school dance held two weeks ago , and another dance for Fuhrmann's 770 students this Friday night . 
`` Furhmann's faculty is proud that this has been a spontaneous effort , started largely among the students themselves , because of fondness for Vicky and sympathy for her entire family , Pohly said . 
There also were reports of a collection at the County Line Elementary School , 3505o Dequindre , which has been attended this year by four of the Kowalski children including Christine . 
Expresses thanks Kowalski has spoken but little since the fire last Saturday . 
But today he wanted to make a public statement . 
`` I never knew there were such neighbors and friends around me and my family . 
I wasn't sure there were such people anywhere in the world . 
I'll need more than a single day to find the words to properly express my thanks to them '' . 
An alert 10-year-old safety patrol boy was congratulated by police today for his part in obtaining a reckless driving conviction against a youthful motorist . 
Patrolman George Kimmell , of McClellan Station , said he would recommend a special safety citation for Ralph Sisk , 9230 Vernor east , a third grader at the Scripps School , for his assistance in the case . 
Kimmell said he and Ralph were helping children across Belvidere at Kercheval Monday afternoon when a car heading north on Belvidere stopped belatedly inside the pedestrian crosswalk . 
Gets car number Kimmell ordered the driver to back up , watched the children safely across and was approaching the car when it suddenly `` took off at high speed '' , he said , narrowly missing him . 
Commandeering a passing car , Kimmell pursued the fleeing vehicle , but lost it in traffic . 
Returning to the school crossing , the officer was informed by the Sisk boy that he recognized the driver , a neighbor , and had obtained the license number . 
The motorist later was identified as Richard Sarkees , 17 , of 2433 McClellan , currently on probation and under court order not to drive . 
Given 15 days He was found guilty of reckless driving yesterday by Traffic Judge George T. Murphy , who continued his no-driving probation for another year and ordered him to spend 15 days in the Detroit House of Correction . 
The jail sentence is to begin the day after Sarkees graduates from Eastern High School in June . 
The long crisis in Laos appeared nearing a showdown today . 
Britain announced that it is asking the Soviet Union to agree tomorrow to an immediate cease-fire . 
Help asked In Vientiane , the royal Laotian government decided today to ask its `` friends and neighbors '' for help in fighting what it called a new rebel offensive threatening the southeast Asian kingdom . 
Britain's plans to press Russia for a definite cease-fire timetable was announced in London by Foreign Secretary Lord Home . 
He said Britain also proposed that the international truce commission should be reconvened , sent to New Delhi and from there to Laos to verify the cease-fire . 
A 14-power conference on Laos should then meet on May 5 , he said . 
Plea for arms The Laos government plea for help was made by Foreign Minister Tiao Sopsaisana . 
He indicated that requests would be made for more U.S. arms and more U.S. military advisers . 
He declared the government is thinking of asking for foreign troops if the situation worsens . 
One of the first moves made after a cabinet decision was to request the United States to establish a full-fledged military assistance group instead of the current civilian body . 
A note making the request was handed to U.S. Ambassador Winthrop G. Brown . 
Heavy support The Laos government said four major Pathet Lao rebel attacks had been launched , heavily supported by troops from Communist North Viet Nam . 
The minister , describing the attacks which led up to the appeal , said that 60,000 Communist North Vietnamese were fighting royal army troops on one front -- near Thakhek , in southern-central Laos . 
There was no confirmation of such massive assaults from independent sources . 
In the past such government claims have been found exaggerated . 
Havana , April 19 . 
-- Two Americans and seven Cubans were executed by firing squads today as Castro military tribunals began decreeing the death penalty for captured invasion forces and suspected collaborators . 
A Havana radio broadcast identified the Americans as Howard Anderson and August Jack McNair . 
The executions took place at dawn only a few hours after Havana radio announced their conviction by a revolutionary tribunal at Pinar Del Rio , where the executions took place . 
Arms plot charged The broadcast said Anderson , a Seattle ex-marine and Havana businessman , and McNair , of Miami , were condemned on charges of smuggling arms to Cuban rebels . 
Anderson operated three Havana automobile service stations and was commander of the Havana American Legion post before it disbanded since the start of Fidel Castro's regime . 
Anderson's wife and four children live in Miami . 
McNair , 25 , was seized March 20 with four Cubans and accused of trying to land a boatload of rifles in Pinar Del Rio , about 35 miles from Havana . 
Report others held At least 20 other Americans were reported to have been arrested in a mass political roundup . 
Among them were a number of newsmen , including Henry Raymont , of United Press International , and Robert Berrellez , of Associated Press . 
So many Cubans were reported being swept into the Castro dragnet that the massive Sports Palace auditorium and at least one hotel were converted into makeshift jails . 
More than 1,000 were said to have been arrested -- 100 of them Roman Catholic priests . 
Of the millions who have served time in concentration camps in Siberia as political prisoners of the Soviet state , few emerge in the West to tell about it . 
M. Kegham -- the name is a pseudynom -- was a teacher in Bucharest and a member of the Armenian Revolutionary Federation ( ARF ) -- two reasons the Communists put him away when they arrived in 1945 . 
Today , M. Kegham was in Detroit , en route to join his wife and children in California . 
Emory University's Board of Trustees announced Friday that it was prepared to accept students of any race as soon as the state's tax laws made such a step possible . 
`` Emory University's charter and by-laws have never required admission or rejection of students on the basis of race '' , board chairman Henry L. Bowden stated . 
But an official statement adopted by the 33-man Emory board at its annual meeting Friday noted that state taxing requirements at present are a roadblock to accepting Negroes . 
The statement explained that under the Georgia Constitution and state law , tax-exempt status is granted to educational institutions only if they are segregated . 
`` Emory could not continue to operate according to its present standards as an institution of higher learning , of true university grade , and meet its financial obligations , without the tax-exemption privileges which are available to it only so long as it conforms to the aforementioned constitutional and statutory provisions '' , the statement said . 
The statement did not mention what steps might be taken to overcome the legal obstacles to desegregation . 
An Emory spokesman indicated , however , that the university itself did not intend to make any test of the laws . 
The Georgia Constitution gives the Legislature the power to exempt colleges from property taxation if , among other criteria , `` all endowments to institutions established for white people shall be limited to white people , and all endowments to institutions established for colored people shall be limited to colored people '' . 
At least two private colleges in the Atlanta area now or in the past have had integrated student bodies , but their tax-exempt status never has been challenged by the state . 
Emory is affiliated with the Methodist Church . 
Some church leaders , both clerical and lay , have criticized the university for not taking the lead in desegregation . 
Urged in 1954 The student newspaper , The Emory Wheel , as early as the fall of 1954 called for desegregation . 
`` From its beginning '' , the trustees' statement said Friday , `` Emory University has assumed as its primary commitment a dedication to excellence in Christian higher learning . 
Teaching , research and study , according to highest standards , under Christian influence , are paramount in the Emory University policy . 
`` As a private institution , supported by generous individuals , Emory University will recognize no obligation and will adopt no policy that would conflict with its purpose to promote excellence in scholarship and Christian education . 
`` There is not now , nor has there ever been in Emory University's charter or by-laws any requirement that students be admitted or rejected on the basis of race , color or creed . 
Insofar as its own governing documents are concerned , Emory University could now consider applications from prospective students , and others seeking applications from prospective students , and others seeking the opportunity to study or work at the university , irrespective of race , color or creed . 
Corporate existence `` On the other hand , Emory University derives its corporate existence from the State of Georgia . 
`` When and if it can do so without jeopardizing constitutional and statutory tax-exemption privileges essential to the maintenance of its educational program and facilities , Emory University will consider applications of persons desiring to study or work at the University without regard to race , color or creed , continuing university policy that all applications shall be considered on the basis of intellectual and moral standards and other criteria designed to assure the orderly and effective conduct of the university and the fulfillment of its mission as an institution of Christian higher education '' . 
A young man was killed and two others injured at midnight Friday when the car they were riding slid into a utility pole on Lake Avenue near Waddell Street , NE , police said . 
The dead youth was identified as Robert E. Sims , 19 , of 1688 Oak Knoll Cir. , Aj . 
Patrolman G. E. Hammons said the car evidently slid out of control on rain-slick streets and slammed into the pole . 
The other occupants were James Willard Olvey , 18 , of 963 Ponce De Leon Ave. , NE , and Larry Coleman Barnett , 19 , of 704 Hill St. , SE , both of whom were treated at Grady Hospital for severe lacerations and bruises . 
The Atlanta Negro student movement renewed its demands for movie theater integration Friday and threatened picketing and `` stand-ins '' if negotiations failed . 
The demands were set forth in letters to seven owners of first-run theaters by the Committee on Appeal for Human Rights . 
' intend to attend ' `` We intend to attend the downtown theaters before the first of the year '' , the identically worded letters said . 
The letters set a Nov. 15 deadline for the start of negotiations . 
They indicated that stand-ins and picketing would be started if theater owners failed to cooperate . 
Downtown and art theater managers and owners , contacted Friday night for comment on the COAHR request , said they had no knowledge of such a letter , and that it was not in the Friday mail . 
However , three of the managers did say that they would agree to attend the proposed meeting if all of the other managers decided to attend . 
Gather here The COAHR letter comes on the eve of a large gathering of theater managers and owners scheduled to begin here Sunday . 
Several theater operators said , however , that there is little likelihood of the subject being discussed during the three-day affair . 
Student leaders began sporadic efforts to negotiate theater integration several months ago . 
Charles A. Black , COAHR chairman , said Friday that three theater representatives had agreed to meet with the students on Oct. 31 but had failed to show up . 
He declined to name the three . 
Friday's letters asked for a Nov. 15 meeting . 
Failure to attend the meeting or explain inability to attend , the letters said , would be considered a `` sign of indifference '' . 
Black said COAHR `` hoped to be able to integrate the theaters without taking direct action , but we are pledged to using every legal and nonviolent means at our disposal '' A prepared statement released by the student group Friday stated that `` extensive research by COAHR into techniques and methods of theater integration in other cities indicated that the presence of picket lines and stand-ins before segregated theaters causes a drop in profits '' Besides managers of downtown theaters , the students sent letters to owners of art theaters in the uptown area and Buckhead . 
R. E. Killingsworth Raymond E. Killingsworth , 72 , died Sunday at his home at 357 Venable St. , Aj . 
Mr. Kililngsworth was a foreman with S and W Cafeteria . 
He was born in Pittsboro , Miss. , and was a veteran of World War 1 . 
He was a member of the Baptist church . 
Survivors include two brothers , C. E. Killingsworth , Atlanta , and John Killingsworth , Warren , Ohio ; ; and two sisters , Miss Minnie Kililngsworth and Mrs. Bessie Bloom , both of Gettysburg , Pa. . 
John W. Ball John William Ball , 68 , of 133 Marietta St. NW , Apartment 101b , died Sunday at his home . 
Mr. Ball was a house painter . 
He was a member of the Oakland City Methodist Church and a native of Atlanta . 
Funeral services will be at 2 p.m. Tuesday at Blanchard's Chapel with the Rev. J. H. Hearn officiating . 
Survivors include his sister , Mrs. Emma B. Odom of Atlanta . 
Mrs. Lola Harris Mrs. Lola M. Harris , a native of Atlanta , died Sunday at her home in Garland , Tex. . 
Survivors include a son , Charles R. Fergeson , Memphis , Tenn. ; ; two daughters , Mrs. Gene F. Stoll and Miss Nancy Harris , both of Garland ; ; her father , H. T. Simpson , Greenville , S.C. , and three sisters , Mrs. W. E. Little and Mrs. Hal B. Wansley , both of Atlanta , and Mrs. Bill Wallace , Wilmington , N.C. . 
A 24-year-old Atlanta man was arrested Sunday after breaking into the home of relatives in search of his wife , hitting his uncle with a rock and assaulting two police officers who tried to subdue him , police said . 
Patrolmen J. W. Slate and A. L. Crawford Jr. said they arrested Ronald M. Thomas , of 1671 Nakoma St. , NW , after he assaulted the officers . 
Police account The officers gave this account : Thomas early Sunday went to the home of his uncle and aunt , Mr. and Mrs. R. C. Thomas , 511 Blanche St. , NW , looking for his wife , Margaret Lou Thomas , 18 , and their 11-month-old baby . 
The younger Thomas ripped a screen door , breaking the latch , and after an argument struck his uncle with a rock , scratching his face . 
He also struck his aunt and wife , and during the melee the baby also suffered scratches . 
When police arrived the man was still violent , Slate said . 
Attacks officer He attacked one of the officers and was restrained . 
About five minutes later he jumped up , Slate said , and struck the two policemen again . 
He was then subdued and placed in the police car to be taken to Grady Hospital for treatment of scratches received in the melee . 
Then he attacked the two officers again and was again restrained , Slate related . 
Slate said he and Crawford received cuts and scratches and their uniforms were badly torn . 
Thomas was charged with four counts of assault and battery . 
Two counts of assault on an officer , resisting arrest , disturbance and cursing , police said . 
A hearing was set for 30 a.m. Tuesday . 
Mrs. Mary Self , who knows more than any other person about the 5,000 city employes for whom she has kept personnel records over the years , has closed her desk and retired . 
Over the weekend , Mrs. Self , personnel clerk , was a feted and honored guest of the Atlanta Club , organization of women employes at City Hall . 
After 18 years in the personnel office , she has taken a disability pension on advice of her doctors . 
As personnel clerk , she handled thousands of entries , ranging from appointments to jobs , to transfers to other employments , to pensions . 
`` I have enjoyed it and will feel a bit lost at least for a while '' , she said wistfully Friday . 
One of the largest crowds in the club's history turned out to pay tribute to Mrs. Self and her service . 
Georgia's Department of Agriculture is intensifying its fire ant eradication program in an effort to stay ahead of the fast-spreading pest . 
The department is planning to expand its eradication program soon to four additional counties -- Troup , Pierce , Bryan and Bulloch -- to treat 132,000 acres infested by the ants , according to W. E. Blasingame state entomologist . 
Low-flying planes will spread a granular-type chemical , heptachlor , over 30,000 acres in Troup , 37,000 acres in Pierce and 65,000 acres in Bulloch and Bryan counties . 
The eradication effort is being pushed in Bibb and Jones counties , over 37,679 acres . 
The department has just finished treating 20,000 acres in urban areas of Macon . 
Also being treated are Houston , Bleckley , Tift , Turner and Dodge counties , Blasingame said . 
The fire ant is thought to infest approximately two million acres of land in Georgia , attacking crops , young wildlife and livestock and can be a serious health menace to humans who are allergic to its venom , Blasingame said . 
The north-bound entrance to the Expressway at 14th Street will be closed during the afternoon rush traffic hours this week . 
This is being done so that Georgia Tech can complete the final phase of a traffic survey on the North Expressway . 
Students have been using electric computers and high speed movie cameras during the study . 
Perhaps the engineers can find out what causes all the congestion and suggest methods to eliminate it . 
Incidentally , 14th Street and the Expressway is the high accident intersection during daylight hours . 
It is followed by Cain Street and Piedmont Avenue , NE ; ; the junction of the Northeast and Northwest Expressways and Jones Avenue and Marietta Street , Aj . 
Four persons died in Georgia weekend traffic crashes , two of them in a fiery crash near Snellville , the State Patrol said Sunday . 
The latest death reported was that of 4-year-old Claude Douglas Maynor of Calvary . 
Troopers said the child ran into the path of a passing car a half-mile north of Calvary on Georgia 111 in Grady County . 
That death occurred at 50 p.m. Friday and was reported Sunday , the patrol said . 
Bursts into flames An auto overturned , skidding into a stopped tractor-trailer and burst into flames near Snellville , the patrol said . 
Bobby Bester Hammett , 21 , of Rte. 3 , Lawrenceville , and Mrs. Lucille Herrington Jones , 23 , of Lawrenceville , died in the flaming car , the patrol said . 
Salem ( special ) -- For a second month in a row , Multnomah County may be short of general assistance money in its budget to handle an unusually high summer month's need , the state public welfare commission was told Friday . 
It is the only county in the state so far this month reporting a possible shortage in GA category , for which emergency allotment can be given by the state if necessary . 
William Smythe , director of field service , told the commissioners that Multnomah , as of Aug. 22 , had spent $58,918 out of its budgeted $66,000 in the category , leaving only $7,082 for the rest of the month . 
At the rate of need indicated in the early weeks of the month , this could mean a shortage of as high as $17,000 . 
But it probably will be less because of a usual slackening during the last weeks of each month , Smythe said . 
No request for emergency allotment had yet been received , however . 
Board oks pact The commission , meeting for the first time with both of its newly-appointed commissioners , Roy Webster , of Hood River , and Dr. Ennis Keizer , of North Bend , approved a year's contract for a consultant in the data processing department who has been the center of considerable controversy in the past . 
The contract with Ray Field , who has been converting the agencies electronic data processing program to magnetic tape , would renew his present salary of $8 an hour up to a maximum of 200 hours a month . 
Field does the planning for the machine operations and fiscal processes and the adapting of the data processing system to new programs as they are made necessary by legislative and policy changes . 
Acting Administrator Andrew F. Juras said that because of Field's unique position and knowledge in the program , the agency now would be seriously handicapped if he was not continued for a period . 
But he emphasized that the agency must train people within its own employ to fulfill what Field handles , and he said he personally `` regrets very much that the agency has not done this in the past '' . 
He pointed out to the commissioners that the agency was literally dependent now on the machine processing , `` and the whole wheels of the agency would stop if it broke down or the three or four persons directing it were to leave '' . 
Salary termed modest Juras said he insisted Field be continued on a consultant basis only and be answerable directly to the administrator of the agency and not to other agencies of the government . 
He also said that the salary , in terms of going rates in the field , was `` modest '' in terms of the man's responsibility . 
The conversion to magnetic tape is not yet completed , he said , and added Field's long service in state government and welfare employ gave him familiarity with the welfare program . 
`` Do you feel you can stand up to the next legislative session and defend this contract '' ? 
Asked Mrs. Grace O. Peck , representative from Multnomah County , of the commission chairman , Joseph E. Harvey Jr. . 
`` My feeling at the moment '' , he said , `` is that we have no alternative , irrespective of some of the arguments about him . 
The continued operation of this program depends on having his service '' . 
Harvey criticized Mrs. Peck , later joined by the commission's vice-chairman , Mrs. Lee Patterson , took Harvey to task for comments he had made to the North Portland Rotary Club Tuesday . 
A publicity release from Oregon Physicians Service , of which Harvey is president , quoted him as saying the welfare office move to Salem , instead of `` crippling '' the agency , had provided an avenue to correct administrative weaknesses , with the key being improved communications between F & A and the commission staff . 
`` I rather resent '' , she said , `` you speaking to those groups in Portland as though just the move accomplished this . 
I think you fell short of the real truth in the matter : That the move is working out through the fine cooperation of the staff and all the people . 
The staff deserves a lot of credit working down here under real obstacles '' . 
Harvey said his objective was to create a better public image for welfare '' . 
The wife of convicted bank robber Lawrence G. Huntley was arrested in Phoenix , Ariz. , last week and will be returned to Portland to face charges of assault and robbery , Portland detectives said Friday . 
Mrs. Lavaughn Huntley is accused of driving the getaway car used in a robbery of the Woodyard Bros.' Grocery , 2825 E. Burnside St. , in April of 1959 . 
Her husband , who was sentenced to 15 years in the federal prison at McNeil Island last April for robbery of the Hillsdale branch of Multnomah Bank , also was charged with the store holdup . 
Secret Grand Jury indictments were returned against the pair last week , Detective Murray Logan reported . 
The Phoenix arrest culminates more than a year's investigation by Detective William Taylor and other officers . 
Taylor said Mrs. Huntley and her husband also will be questioned about a series of 15 Portland robberies in spring of 1959 in which the holdup men bound their victims with tape before fleeing . 
Mrs. Huntley was held on $20,000 bond in Phoenix . 
She was arrested by Phoenix Police after they received the indictment papers from Portland detectives . 
A 12-year-old girl , Susan Elaine Smith , 9329 NE Schuyler St. was in serious condition Friday at Bess Kaiser Hospital , victim of a bicycle-auto collision in the Gateway Shopping Center , parking area , Deputy Sheriff W. H. Forsyth reported . 
Funeral for William Joseph Brett , 1926 NE 50th Ave. , who died Thursday in Portland , will be Monday 1 p.m. at the Riverview Abbey . 
Mr. Brett , born in Brooklyn , N.Y. , Dec. 15 , 1886 , came to Portland in 1920 . 
He owned a logging equipment business here from 1923 to 1928 , and later became Northwest district manager for Macwhyte Co. . 
He retired in 1958 . 
Survivors are his widow , Alice ; ; a son , William , Seattle , Wash. ; ; three sisters , Mrs. Eugene Horstman , Los Angeles , Mrs. Lucy Brett Andrew , New York City , and Mrs. Beatrice Kiefferm , New York City , and five grandchildren . 
Employes of Montgomery Ward & Co. at The Dalles , in a National Labor Relations Board election Thursday voted to decertify Local 1565 , Retail Clerks International Association , AFL-CIO , as their collective bargaining agent . 
The NLRB said that of 11 potentially eligible voters eight voted against the union , two voted for it , and one vote was challenged . 
Monte Brooks , 67 , theatrical producer and band leader , collapsed and died Thursday in a Lloyd Center restaurant . 
He lived at 6124 N. Willamette Blvd. . 
For many years he had provided music and entertainment for functions throughout the Northwest . 
These included Oregon State Fair , for which he had been booked on and off , for 30 years . 
He collaborated with many of the big name entertainers visiting Portland , among the most recent being Jimmy Durante and Phil Silvers . 
He had conducted the 20-piece band in a series of concerts at Blue Lake park during the summer months . 
Mr. Brooks was born in New York , and came to Portland in 1920 . 
He planned at one time to enter the legal profession , but gave up the plan in favor of the entertainment field . 
He was a member of Harmony lodge , No. 12 , AF & AM , Scottish Rite ; ; Al Kader Temple of the Shrine ; ; Order of Elks , Lodge No. 142 ; ; 40 & 8 Voiture , No. 25 , Musician's Union , Local 99 . 
He was a former commander of Willamette Heights , Post , and a member of Nevah Sholom Congregation . 
Survivors are his widow , Tearle ; ; a son , Sheldon Brooks ; ; a daughter , Mrs. Sidney S. Stein Jr. , Dorenzo , Calif. ; ; a sister , Mrs. Birdie Gevurtz ; ; two brothers , Charley and Aaron Cohn , San Francisco ; ; and five grandchildren . 
Services will be at 30 p.m. Monday at Holman & Son Funeral Home , with interment in Neveh Zebek cemetery . 
The family requests that flowers be omitted . 
A 16-year-old Portland businessman and his Junior Achievement company , have been judged the `` Company of the Year '' in national competition completed this week at Ohio State University , Columbus , Ohio . 
Tim Larson , a junior at Wilson High School and president of Spice-Nice , is the young executive who guided his firm to the top-ranking position over the 4,500 other Junior Achievement companies in the United States and Canada . 
The award is the first such honor in the 11-year history of JA activities in Portland , according to Ralph Scolatti , local executive director for Junior Achievement . 
Spice-Nice , counseled by Georgia-Pacific Corp. , had previously taken first-place honors in both local competition and the regional conference at San Francisco . 
The `` pocket-size '' company set records with $2,170 in sales of its products , a selection of barbecue spices , and paid stockholders a 20 per cent dividend on their investment . 
Youngsters do business The Junior Achievement program is designed to give teenagers practical experience in business by allowing them actually to form small companies , under the guidance and sponsorship of business firms . 
The youngsters sell stock , produce and sell a product , pay taxes , and show a profit or loss just like full-scale businesses . 
National competition was the culmination of work which began with the school year last fall and continued until just before summer vacation . 
Participants in the 27 Portland companies worked one night a week through the school year , guided and counseled by adult advisors drawn from local business and industry . 
Over 400 Portland firms contributed funds for the maintenance of Junior Achievement headquarters here . 
For winning Larson will receive a $100 U.S. Savings Bond from the Junior Achievement national organization . 
His company , Spice-Nice , will receive a $250 award , which will be distributed among the 16 charter members . 
g-p men served Advisors for the `` national champion '' company were John K. Morgan , William H. Baker , Leonard Breuer and William F. Stephenson , all of Georgia-Pacific Corp. . 
Young Larson is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence Larson , 5847 SW Nevada Ct. , Portland . 
Other members of the Portland delegation attending the conference in Columbus are : Kathleen Mason , Jefferson high school ; ; Phil Reifenrath , Madison high school ; ; Ann Wegener , Madison ; ; Richard E. Cohn , Grant ; ; Karen Kolb , Franklin ; ; and Shelby Carlson , Cleveland . 
Hillsboro ( special ) -- Washington County's 36th annual fair will close Saturday evening with 4-H and FFA awards program at 7 , public dance at 8 and variety show at 8:30 . 
On the day's schedule are a flower show , 4-H horsemanship contest and clown shows , the latter at 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. . 
Attendance continued to run ahead of last year's during the five-day show , with clear skies helping attract fairgoers . 
Exhibition ballroom dancers from the studio of Helen Wick Walters of Hillsboro won the all-county talent contest . 
Bill Davis quartet of Hillsboro was second and baton twirler Sue Ann Nuttall of Reedville third . 
Finalists from the county's east end failed to place . 
Results : Janet Jossy of North Plains won grand champion honors of the 4-H sheep showman contest . 
Blue ribbons went to Stephanie Shaw of Hillsboro , Larry Hinton of Beaverton . 
Joan Zurcher of Hillsboro , Phyllis Jossy of North Plains , Jane Cox of North Plains . 
Kathy Jossy of Hillsboro , Carol Jossy of North Plains and Lorlyn and Tom Zurcher of Hillsboro . 
Tom Day of Beaverton exhibited the grand champion 4-H market hog , a Chester White . 
Also winning blue ribbons were Bob Day of Beaverton , Tony Traxel of Beaverton and Steve Hutchins of Banks . 
Swine showmanship championship went to Bob Day , with Tom Day and Hutchins winning other blues . 
Charles Reynolds of Pumpkin Ridge was rabbit showmanship champion . 
In poultry judging , blues were won by John Nyberg of Tualatin , Anne Batchelder of Hillsboro , Jim Shaw of Hillsboro , Stephanie Shaw of Hillsboro and Lynn Robinson of Tigard . 
Blue ribbon for one dozen white eggs was taken by Nyberg . 
In open class poultry , Donald Wacklin of Sherwood had the champion male and female bird and grand champion bird . 
John Haase & Son of Corneilus was the only entrant in open class swine and swept all championships . 
Carol Strong , 13 , of Cedar Mill cooked the championship junior dollar dinner . 
Millie Jansen , high school senior from Verboort , had the championship dollar dinner , and Jody Jaross of Hillsboro also won a blue ribbon . 
Barbara Borland of Tigard took top senior individual home economics honors with a demonstration called filbert hats . 
About 70 North Providence taxpayers made appeals to the board of tax assessors for a review of their 1961 tax assessments during the last two days at the town hall in Centredale . 
These were the last two days set aside by the board for hearing appeals . 
Appeals were heard for two days two weeks ago . 
About 75 persons appeared at that time . 
Louis H. Grenier , clerk of the board , said that the appeals will be reviewed in December at the time the board is visiting new construction sites in the town for assessment purposes . 
They also will visit properties on which appeals have been made . 
Any adjustments which are made , Mr. Grenier said earlier this month , will appear on the balance of the tax bill since most of the town's taxpayers take the option of paying quarterly with the balance due next year . 
John Pezza , 69 , of 734 Hartford Avenue , Providence , complained of shoulder pains after an accident in which a car he was driving collided with a car driven by Antonio Giorgio , 25 , of 12 DeSoto St. , Providence , on Greenville Avenue and Cherry Hill Road in Johnston yesterday . 
Mr. Giorgio had started to turn left off Greenville Avenue onto Cherry Hill Road when his car was struck by the Pezza car , police said . 
Both cars were slightly damaged . 
Mr. Pezza was taken to a nearby Johnston physician , Dr. Allan A. DiSimone , who treated him . 
Mr. Giorgio was uninjured . 
Thieves yesterday ransacked a home in the Garden Hills section of Cranston and stole an estimated $3,675 worth of furs , jewels , foreign coins and American dollars . 
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen M. Kochanek reported the theft at their home on 41 Garden Hills Drive at about 6 last night . 
They told police the intruders took a mink coat worth $700 , a black Persian lamb jacket worth $450 ; ; a wallet with $450 in it ; ; a collection of English , French and German coins , valued at $500 ; ; four rings , a watch and a set of pearl earrings . 
One of the rings was a white gold band with a diamond setting , valued at $900 . 
The others were valued at $325 , $75 and $65 . 
The watch was valued at $125 and the earrings at $85 . 
The Kochaneks told police they left home at 8 a.m. and returned about 45 p.m. and found the house had been entered . 
Patrolman Robert J. Nunes , who investigated , said the thieves broke in through the back door . 
Drawers and cabinets in two bedrooms and a sewing room were ransacked . 
The city sewer maintenance division said efforts will be made Sunday to clear a stoppage in a sewer connection at Eddy and Elm Streets responsible for dumping raw sewage into the Providence River . 
The division said it would be impossible to work on the line until then because of the large amount of acid sewage from jewelry plants in the area flowing through the line , heavy vehicle traffic on Eddy Street and tide conditions . 
A two-family house at 255 Brook Street has been purchased by Brown University from Lawrence J. Sullivan , according to a deed filed Monday at City Hall . 
F. Morris Cochran , university vice president and business manager , said the house has been bought to provide rental housing for faculty families , particularly for those here for a limited time . 
Employes of Pawtucket's garbage and rubbish collection contractor picketed the firm's incinerator site yesterday in the second day of a strike for improved wages and working conditions . 
Thomas Rotelli , head of Rhode Island Incinerator Service , Inc. , said four of the company's eight trucks were making collections with both newly hired and regular workers . 
Sydney Larson , a staff representative for the United Steel Workers , which the firm's 25 workers joined before striking , said the state Labor Relations Board has been asked to set up an election to pick a bargaining agent . 
A 62-year-old Smithfield man , Lester E. Stone of 19 Beverly Circle , was in satisfactory condition last night at Our Lady of Fatima Hospital , North Providence , with injuries suffered when a car he was driving struck a utility pole on Woonasquatucket Avenue in North Providence near Stevens Street . 
Mr. Stone suffered fractured ribs and chest cuts , hospital authorities said . 
He was taken to the hospital by the North Providence ambulance . 
Before hitting the pole , Mr. Stone's car brushed against a car driven by Alva W. Vernava , 21 , of 23 Maple Ave. , North Providence , tearing away the rear bumper and denting the left rear fender of the Vernava car , police said . 
Mr. Vernava was uninjured . 
The impact with the utility pole caused a brief power failure in the immediate area of the accident . 
One house was without power for about half an hour , a Narragansett Electric Co. spokesman said . 
The power was off for about five minutes in houses along Smith Street as far away as Fruit Hill Avenue shortly before 5 p.m. when the accident occurred . 
The fight over the Warwick School Committee's appointment of a coordinator of audio-visual education may go to the state Supreme Court , it appeared last night . 
Two members of the Democratic-endorsed majority on the school board said they probably would vote to appeal a ruling by the state Board of Education , which said yesterday that the school committee acted improperly in its appointment of the coordinator , Francis P. Nolan 3rd , the Democratic-endorsed committee chairman , could not be reached for comment . 
In its ruling , the state Board of Education upheld Dr. Michael F. Walsh , state commissioner of education , who had ruled previously that the Warwick board erred when it named Maurice F. Tougas as coordinator of audio-visual education without first finding that the school superintendent's candidate was not suitable . 
Supt. Clarence S. Taylor had recommended Roger I. Vermeersch for the post . 
Milton and Rosella Lovett of Cranston were awarded $55,000 damages from the state in Superior Court yesterday for industrial property which they owned at 83 Atwells Ave. , Providence , and which was condemned for use in construction of Interstate Route 95 . 
The award was made by Judge Fred B. Perkins who heard their petition without a jury by agreement of the parties . 
The award , without interest , compared with a valuation of $57,500 placed on the property by the property owners' real estate expert , and a valuation of $52,500 placed on it by the state's expert . 
The property included a one-story brick manufacturing building on 8,293 square feet of land . 
Saul Hodosh represented the owners . 
Atty. Gen. J. Joseph Nugent appeared for the state . 
Santa's lieutenants in charge of the Journal-Bulletin Santa Claus Fund are looking for the usual generous response this year from Cranston residents . 
Persons who find it convenient may send their contributions to the Journal-Bulletin's Cranston office at 823 Park Avenue . 
All contributed will be acknowledged . 
The fund's statewide quota this year is $8,250 to provide Christmas gifts for needy youngsters . 
Scores of Cranston children will be remembered . 
Cranston residents have been generous contributors to the fund over the years . 
Public school children have adopted the fund as one of their favorite Christmas charities and their pennies , nickels , dimes and quarters aid greatly in helping Santa to reach the fund's goal . 
Bernard Parrillo , 20 , of 19 Fletcher Ave. , Cranston , was admitted to Roger Williams Hospital shortly before 11:30 a.m. yesterday after a hunting accident in which a shotgun he was carrying discharged against his heel . 
Mr. Parrillo was given first aid at Johnston Hose 1 . 
( Thornton ) where he had been driven by a companion . 
The two had been hunting in the Simmonsville area of town and Mr. Parrillo dropped the gun which fired as it struck the ground . 
Hospital officials said the injury was severe but the youth was in good condition last night . 
A check for $4,177.37 representing the last payment of a $50,000 federal grant to Rhode Island Hospital was presented to the hospital administrator , Oliver G. Pratt , yesterday by Governor Notte . 
The hospital has used the money to assist in alterations on the fifth floor of the Jane Brown Hospital , part of Rhode Island Hospital . 
The work added eight beds to the hospital , giving it a total capacity of 646 general beds . 
Vincent Sorrentino , founder and board chairman of the Uncas Mfg. Co. , has been designated a Cavaliere of the Order of Merit of the Republic of Italy . 
The decoration will be presented by A. Trichieri , Italian consul general in Boston , at a ceremony at 30 p.m. on Dec. 7 at the plant , which this year is celebrating its golden anniversary . 
About 500 employes of the firm will be on hand to witness bestowal of the honor upon Mr. Sorrentino . 
Mr. Sorrentino will be honored on the evening of Dec. 7 at a dinner to be given by the Aurora Club at the Sheraton-Biltmore Hotel . 
The Newport-based destroyer picket escort Kretchmer has arrived back at Newport after three months' patrol in North Atlantic waters marked by mercy jobs afloat and ashore . 
On Sept. 6 , the Kretchmer rescued the crew of a trawler they found drifting on a life raft after they had abandoned a sinking ship . 
In August while stopping in Greenock , Scotland , three members of the crew on liberty rendered first aid to a girl who fell from a train . 
Local authorities credited the men with saving the girl's life . 
Birmingham , Ala. -- ( AP ) -- The FBI yesterday arrested on a perjury charge one of the members of the jury that failed to reach a verdict in the `` Freedom Rider '' bus burning trial four weeks ago . 
U.S. Attorney Macon Weaver said the federal complaint , charged that the juror gave false information when asked about Ku Klux Klan membership during selection of jury . 
He identified the man as Lewis Martin Parker , 59 , a farmer of Hartselle , Ala. . 
Eight men were tried together in U.S. District Court in Anniston , Ala. , on charges of interfering with interstate transportation and conspiracy growing out of a white mob's attack on a Greyhound bus carrying the first of the Freedom Riders . 
The bus was burned outside Anniston . 
One of the eight defendants was freed on a directed verdict of acquittal . 
A mistrial was declared in the case against the other seven when the jury was unable to agree on a verdict . 
The arrest of Mr. Parker marks the third charge of wrongdoing involving the jury that heard the case . 
The first incident occurred before the trial got under way when Judge H. Hobart Grooms told the jury panel he had heard reports of jury-tampering efforts . 
He asked members of the panel to tell him if anyone outside the court had spoken to them about the case . 
Two members of the panel later told in court about receiving telephone calls at their homes from anonymous persons expressing interest in the trial . 
Neither was seated on the jury . 
Then , when the case went to the jury , the judge excused one of the jurors , saying the juror had told him he had been accosted by masked men at his motel the night before the trial opened . 
The juror said the masked men had advised him to be lenient . 
The judge replaced the juror with an alternate . 
No formal charges have been filed as a result of either of the two reported incidents . 
At the opening of the trial , the jury panel was questioned as a group by Mr. Weaver about Ku Klux Klan connections . 
One member of the panel -- not Mr. Parker -- indicated he had been a member of the KKK at one time . 
He was not seated on the jury . 
The perjury charge against Mr. Parker carries a maximum penalty of $2,000 fine and five years imprisonment on conviction . 
New York -- ( UPI ) -- The New York University Board of Trustees has elected the youngest president in the 130-year history of NYU , it was announced yesterday . 
The new president is 37-year-old Dr. James McN. Hester , currently dean of the NYU Graduate School of Arts and Sciences . 
He will take over his new post Jan. 1 . 
Dr. Hester , also one of the youngest men ever to head a major American university , succeeds Dr. Carroll V. Newsom who resigned last September to join Prentice-Hall Inc. publishing firm . 
Dr. Hester , of Princeton , N.J. , is a native of Chester , Pa. He joined NYU in September , 1960 . 
Prior to that he was associated with Long Island University in Brooklyn . 
Asilomar , March 26 Vast spraying programs conducted by `` technicians with narrow training and little wisdom '' are endangering crops and wildlife , Carl W. Buchheister , president of the National Audubon Society , said today . 
`` It is like handing a loaded automatic to an 8-year-old and telling him to run out and play '' , he commented . 
Buchheister told delegates to the West Coast Audubon Convention that aerial spraying in Louisiana failed to destroy its target , the fire ant . 
`` But it did destroy the natural controls of a borer and released a new plague that wrecked a sugar cane crop '' , he said . 
The conservation leader said other mistakes in spraying had caused serious damage in Ohio and Wyoming . 
There have even been serious errors in the U. S. Forest Service , whose officials pride themselves in their scientific training , he added . 
`` The news of their experiments reaches the farmers who , forgetting that birds are the most efficient natural enemies of insects and rodents , are encouraged to try to get rid of all birds that occasionally peck their grapes or their blueberries '' , Buchheister told the delegates . 
In addition to urging greater restrictions on aerial spraying , Buchheister called for support of the Wilderness bill , creation of national seashore parks , including Point Reyes ; ; preservation of the wetlands where birds breed ; ; a pesticides co-ordination act ; ; stronger water pollution control programs , and Federal ratification of an international convention to halt pollution of the sea by oil . 
The Reed Rogers Da Fonta Wild Life Sanctuary in Marin county on Friday officially became the property of the National Audubon Society . 
Mrs. Norman Livermore , president of the Marin Conservation League , handed over the deed to the 645-acre tidelands tract south of Greenwood Beach to Carl W. Buchheister , president of the Society . 
The presentation was made before several hundred persons at the annual meeting of the League at Olney Hall , College of Marin , Kentfield . 
Buchheister pledged the land would be an `` inviolate '' sanctuary for all birds , animals and plants . 
Seventeen years ago today , German scientist Willy Fiedler climbed into a makeshift cockpit installed in a V-1 rocket-bomb that was attached to the underbelly of a Heinkel bomber . 
The World War 2 , German bomber rolled down a runway and took off . 
The only way Fiedler could get back to earth alive was to fly the pulse jet missile and land it on the airstrip . 
This had never been done before . 
Now a quiet-spoken , middle-aged man , Fiedler is an aeronautical engineer for Lockheed's Missiles and Space Division at Sunnyvale , where he played a key role in the development of the Navy's Polaris missile . 
He sat in his office yesterday and recalled that historic flight in 1944 . 
`` The first two pilots had crashed '' , he said . 
`` I had developed the machines and therefore knew them . 
It was time to go up myself '' . 
Fiedler was then technical director of Hitler's super-secret `` Reichenberg project '' , which remained unknown to the Allies until after the war . 
About 200 of the special V-1 rocket-bombs were to be made ready for manned flight with an explosive warhead . 
The target was Allied shipping -- a desperate effort to stave off the Allied invasion of Europe . 
The success of the project depended upon Fiedler's flight . 
Squeezed into the few cubic feet normally filled by the rocket's automatic guidance mechanism , the scientist waited while the bomber gained altitude . 
At 12,000 feet , Fiedler signaled `` release '' , and started the roaring pulse-jet engine -- then streaked away from beneath the Heinkel . 
To the German pilot in the bomber the rocket became a faint black speck , hurtling through the sky at the then incredible speed of 420 m.p.h. . 
It was probably man's first successful flight in a missile . 
`` She flew beautifully '' , said Fiedler . 
`` There was only one power control -- a valve to adjust the fuel flow . 
I had exactly 20 minutes to get down to the test strip '' . 
Using a steering system that controlled the modified rocket's tail surfaces and wings equipped with ailerons , Fiedler was to land the missile on a skid especially bolted under the fuselage . 
He managed to maneuver the missile to a landing speed of 200 m.p.h. -- fast even for a modern jet plane touchdown -- and banked into the airfield . 
Moments later the V-1 skimmed across the landing strip , edging closer and closer to a touchdown -- then in a streamer of dust it landed . 
Fiedler went on to make several other test flights before German pilots took over the Reichenberg missiles . 
The missiles were to be armed with an underwater bomb . 
Pilots would steer them in a suicide dive into the water , striking below the waterline of individual ships . 
A crack corps of 50 pilots was formed from the ranks of volunteers , but the project was halted before the end of the war , and the missiles later fell into Allied hands . 
Now a family man with three children , Fiedler lives in a quiet residential area near the Lockheed plant at Sunnyvale . 
His spare time is spent in soaring gliders . 
`` It's so quiet '' , he said , `` so slow , serene -- and so challenging '' . 
John Di Massimo has been elected president of the 1961 Columbus Day Celebration Committee , it was announced yesterday . 
Other officers are Angelo J. Scampini , vice president , Joseph V. Arata , treasurer , and Fred J. Casassa , secretary . 
Judge John B. Molinari was named chairman of the executive committee . 
Elected to the board of directors were : Elios P. Anderlini , Attilio Beronio , Leo M. Bianco , Frederic Campagnoli , Joseph Cervetto , Armond J. De Martini , Grace Duhagon , John P. Figone , John P. Figone Jr. , Stephen Mana , John Moscone , Calude Perasso , Angelo Petrini , Frank Ratto , and George R. Reilly . 
Dr. Albert Schweitzer , world-famous theologian and medical missionary , has endorsed an Easter March for Disarmament which begins tomorrow in Sunnyvale . 
Members of the San Francisco American Friends Service , a Quaker organization , will march to San Francisco for a rally in Union Square at 2 p.m. Saturday . 
In a letter to the American Friends Service , Dr. Schweitzer wrote : `` Leading Nations of the West and of the East keep busy making newer nuclear weapons to defend themselves in the event the constantly threatening nuclear war should break out . 
`` They cannot do otherwise than live in dread of each other since these weapons imply the possibility of such grisly surprise attack . 
The only way out of this state of affairs is agreement to abolish nuclear weapons ; ; otherwise no peace is possible . 
`` Governments apparently do not feel obligated to make the people adequately aware of this danger ; ; therefore we need guardians to demonstrate against the ghastly stupidity of nuclear weapons and jolt the people out of their complacency '' . 
A federal grand jury called 10 witnesses yesterday in an investigation of the affairs of Ben Stein , 47 , who collected big fees as a `` labor consultant '' and operator of a janitors' service . 
Before he testified for 20 minutes , Stein , who lives at 3300 Lake Shore Dr. , admitted to reporters that he had a wide acquaintance with crime syndicate hoodlums . 
Glimco a buddy Among his gangland buddies , he said , were Joseph ( Joey ) Glimco , a mob labor racketeer , and four gang gambling chiefs , Gus ( Slim ) Alex , Ralph Pierce , Joe ( Caesar ) DiVarco , and Jimmy ( Monk ) Allegretti . 
Another hoodlum , Louis Arger , drew $39,000 from Stein's janitor firm , the National Maintenance company , in three years ending in 1959 , Stein disclosed in an interview . 
`` I put Arger on the payroll because he promised to get my firm the stevedore account at Navy pier '' , Stein said . 
`` But Arger never was able to produce it , so I cut him off my payroll '' . 
Connection is sought Other witnesses , after appearances before the jury , which reportedly is probing into possible income tax violations , disclosed that government prosecutors were attempting to connect Stein and his company with a number of gangsters , including Glimco and Alex . 
The federal lawyers , according to their witnesses , also were tracing Stein's fees as a labor consultant . 
Under scrutiny , two of the witnesses said , were payments and loans to Stein's National Maintenance company at 543 Madison St. . 
The company supplies janitors and workmen for McCormick Place and factories , liquor firms , and other businesses . 
Lee a witness Among the witnesses were Ed J. Lee , director of McCormick Place ; ; Jerome Leavitt , a partner in the Union Liquor company , 3247 S. Kedzie Av. , Dominic Senese , a teamster union slugger who is a buddy of Stein and a cousin of Tony Accardo , onetime gang chief ; ; and Frank W. Pesce , operator of a Glimco dominated deodorant firm , the Best Sanitation and Supply company , 1215 Blue Island Av. . 
Lee said he had told the jury that he made an agreement in April with Stein to supply and supervise janitors in McCormick Place . 
Stein's fee , Lee said , was 10 per cent of the janitors' pay . 
Stein estimated this amount at `` about $1,500 or $1,600 a month '' . 
A $12,500 payment Leavitt , as he entered the jury room , said he was prepared to answer questions about the $12,500 his liquor firm paid to Stein for `` labor consultant work '' with five unions which organized Leavitt's workers . 
Leavitt identified the unions as a warehouseman's local , the teamsters union , a salesman's union , the janitors' union , and a bottling workers' union . 
Government attorneys , Leavitt said , have questioned him closely about `` five or six loans '' totaling about $40,000 which the liquor company made to Stein in the last year . 
All of the loans , in amounts up to $5,000 each , have been repaid by Stein , according to Leavitt . 
Stein said he needed the money , Leavitt said , to `` meet the payroll '' at National Maintenance company . 
The deodorant firm run by Pesce has offices in the headquarters of Glimco's discredited taxi drivers' union at 1213-15 Blue Island Av. . 
The radiation station of the Chicago board of health recorded a reading of 1 micro-microcurie of radiation per cubic meter of air over Chicago yesterday . 
The reading , which has been watched with interest since Russia's detonation of a super bomb Monday , was 4 on Tuesday and 7 last Saturday , a level far below the danger point , according to the board of health . 
The weather bureau has estimated that radioactive fallout from the test might arrive here next week . 
A board of health spokesman said there is no reason to believe that an increase in the level here will occur as a result of the detonation . 
Curtis Allen Huff , 41 , of 1630 Lake Av. , Wilmette , was arrested yesterday on a suppressed federal warrant charging him with embezzling an undetermined amount of money from the First Federal Savings and Loan association , 1 S. Dearborn St. , where he formerly was employed as an attorney . 
Federal prosecutors estimated that the amount may total $20,000 , altho a spokesman for the association estimated its loss at approximately $10,000 . 
Lien payments involved Huff's attorney , Antone F. Gregorio , quoted his client as saying that part of the embezzlement represented money paid to Huff , as attorney for the loan association , in satisfaction of mechanic's liens on property on which the association held mortgages . 
Huff told Gregorio that he took the money to pay `` the ordinary bills and expenses of suburban living '' . 
Huff , who received a salary of $109 a week from the loan association from October of 1955 until September of this year , said that his private practice was not lucrative . 
Huff lives with his wife , Sue , and their four children , 6 to 10 years old , in a $25,000 home with a $17,000 mortgage . 
Charge lists 3 checks The complaint on which the warrant was issued was filed by Leo Blaber , an attorney for the association . 
The shortage was discovered after Huff failed to report for work on Sept. 18 . 
On that date , according to Gregorio , Huff left his home and took a room in the New Lawrence hotel at 1020 Lawrence Av. . 
There , Gregorio said , Huff wrote a complete statement of his offense . 
Later , Huff cashed three checks for $100 each at the Sherman House , using a credit card . 
All bounced . 
When Huff attempted to cash another $100 check there Monday , hotel officials called police . 
Bonn , Oct. 24 ( UPI ) -- Greece and West Germany have ratified an agreement under which Germany will pay $28,700,000 to Greek victims of Nazi persecution , it was announced today . 
Probably the hottest thing that has hit the Dallas investment community in years was the Morton Foods stock issue , which was sold to the public during the past week . 
For many reasons , the demand to buy shares in the Dallas-headquartered company was tremendous . 
It was not a case of the investment bankers having to sell the stock ; ; it was more one of allotting a few shares to a number of customers and explaining to others why they had no more to sell . 
Investors who wanted 100 shares in many cases ended up with 25 , and customers who had put in a bid to buy 400 shares found themselves with 100 and counted themselves lucky to get that many . 
In fact , very few customers , anywhere in the nation , were able to get more than 100 shares . 
Some Dallas investment firms got only 100 shares , for all of their customers . 
A measure of how hot the stock was , can be found in what happened to it on the market as soon as trading began . 
The stock was sold in the underwriting at a price of $12.50 a share . 
The first over-the-counter trade Wednesday afternoon at Eppler , Guerin & Turner , the managing underwriter , was at $17 a share . 
And from that the stock moved right on up until it was trading Thursday morning at around $22 a share . 
But the Morton Foods issue was hot long before it was on the market . 
Indeed , from the moment the reports of the coming issue first started circulating in Dallas last January , the inquiries and demand for the stock started building up . 
Letters by the reams came in from investment firms all over the nation , all of them wanting to get a part of the shares that would be sold ( 185,000 to the public at $12.50 , with another 5,000 reserved for Morton Foods employes at $11.50 a share ) . 
There was even a cable in French from a bank in Switzerland that had somehow learned about the Dallas stock offering . 
`` We subscribe 500 shares of Morton Foods of Texas . 
Cable confirmation '' , it said translated . 
But E.G.T. could not let the Swiss bank have even 10 shares . 
After it allotted shares to 41 underwriters and 52 selling group members from coast to coast there were not many shares for anyone . 
But the result of it all was , E.G.T. partner Dean Guerin believes , an effective distribution of the stock to owners all over the nation . 
`` I feel confident the stock will qualify for the ' national list ' '' , he said , meaning its market price would be quoted regularly in newspapers all over the country . 
He was also pleased with the wide distribution because he thought it proved again his argument that Dallas investment men can do just as good a job as the big New York investment bankers claim only they can do . 
But what made the Morton Foods stock issue such a hot one ? 
The answer is that it was a combination of circumstances . 
First , the general stock market has been boiling upward for the last few months , driving stocks of all kinds up . 
As a result , it is not easy to find a stock priced as the Morton issue was priced ( at roughly 10 times 1960 earnings , to yield a little over 5 per cent on the 64-cent anticipated dividend ) . 
Second , the `` potato chip industry '' has caught the fancy of investors lately , and until Morton Foods came along there were only two potato chip stocks -- Frito and H. W. Lay -- on the market . 
Both of those have had dynamic run-ups in price on the market in recent months , both were selling at higher price-earnings and yield bases than Morton was coming to market at , and everyone who knew anything about it expected the Morton stock to have a fast run-up . 
And third , the potato chip industry has taken on the flavor of a `` growth '' industry in the public mind of late . 
Foods , which long had been considered `` recession resistant '' but hardly dynamic stocks , have been acting like growth stocks , going to higher price-earnings ratios . 
The potato chip industry these days is growing , not only as a result of population increase and public acceptance of convenience foods , but also because of a combination of circumstances that has led to growth by merger . 
The history of the U.S. potato chip industry is that many of today's successful companies got started during the deep depression days . 
Those that remain are those that were headed by strong executives , men with the abilities to last almost 30 years in the competitive survival of the fittest . 
But today many of those men are reaching retirement age and suddenly realizing that they face an estate tax problem with their closely held companies and also that they have no second-echelon management in their firms . 
So they go looking for mergers with other firms that have publicly quoted stock , and almost daily they pound on the doors of firms like Frito . 
All those things combined to make the Morton Foods stock the hot issue that it was and is . 
Now , if Morton's newest product , a corn chip known as Chip-o's , turns out to sell as well as its stock did , the stock may turn out to be worth every cent of the prices that the avid buyers bid it up to . 
Dallas and North Texas is known world-wide as the manufacturing and distribution center of cotton gin machinery and supplies , valued in the millions of dollars . 
More than 10 companies maintain facilities in Dallas and one large manufacturer is located to the north at Sherman . 
It is no coincidence that the Texas Cotton Ginner's Association is meeting here this week for the 46th time in their 52-year history . 
The exhibition of cotton ginning machinery at the State Fair grounds is valued at more than a million dollars . 
It weighs in the tons , so the proximity of factory and exhibition area makes it possible for an outstanding exhibit each year . 
A modern cotton gin plant costs in the neighborhood of $250,000 , and it's a safe assumption that a large percentage of new gins in the U.S. and foreign countries contain machinery made in this area . 
The Murray Co. of Texas , Inc. , originated in Dallas in 1896 . 
They've occupied a 22-acre site since the early 1900's . 
More than 700 employees make gin machinery that's sold anywhere cotton is grown . 
Murray makes a complete line of ginning equipment except for driers and cleaners , and this machinery is purchased from a Dallas-based firm . 
The Continental Gin Co. began operations in Dallas in 1899 . 
The present company is a combination of several smaller ones that date back to 1834 . 
Headquarters is in Birmingham , Ala. . 
Factories are located here and in Prattville , Ala. . 
About 40 per cent of the manufacturing is done at the Dallas plant by more than 200 employes . 
The company sells a complete line of gin machinery all over the cotton-growing world . 
Hardwicke-Etter Co. of Sherman makes a full line of gin machinery and equipment . 
The firm recently expanded domestic sales into the Southeastern states as a result of an agreement with Cen-Tennial Gin Co. . 
They export also . 
The company began operation in 1900 with hardware and oil mill supplies . 
In 1930 , they began making cotton processing equipment . 
Presently , Hardwicke-Etter employs 300-450 people , depending on the season of the year . 
The Lummus Cotton Gin Co. has had a sales and service office in Dallas since 1912 . 
Factory operations are in Columbus , Ga. . 
The district office here employs about 65 . 
The Moss Gordin Lint Cleaner Co. and Gordin Unit System of Ginning have joint headquarters here . 
The cleaner equipment firm began operations in 1953 and the unit system , which turns out a complete ginning system , began operations in 1959 . 
Gordin manufacturing operations are in Lubbock . 
The John E. Mitchell Co. began work in Dallas in 1928 . 
The firm is prominent in making equipment for cleaning seed cotton , driers , and heaters , and they lay claim to being the first maker ( 1910 ) of boil extraction equipment . 
The increase in mechanical harvesting of cotton makes cleaning and drying equipment a must for modern gin operation . 
Mitchell employs a total of about 400 people . 
They export cotton ginning machinery . 
The Hinckley Gin Supply Co. is a maker of `` overhead equipment '' . 
This includes driers , cleaners , burr extractors , separators and piping that's located above gin stands in a complete gin . 
The firm began operations back in 1925 and sells equipment in the central cotton belt , including the Mississippi Delta . 
The Cen-Tennial Gin Supply Co. has home offices and factory facilities here . 
They make gin saws and deal in parts , supplies and some used gin machinery . 
The Stacy Co. makes cleaning and drying equipment for sale largely in Texas . 
They've been in Dallas since 1921 . 
Cotton Belt Gin Service , Inc. of Dallas makes gin saws and started here 14 years ago . 
They distribute equipment in 11 states . 
The firm also handles gin and oil mill supplies such as belting , bearings , etc. . 
Cotton processing equipment is a sizable segment of Dallas business economy . 
New car sales in Dallas County during March showed slight signs of recovering from the doldrums which have characterized sales this year . 
Registrations of new cars in Dallas County cracked the 3,000 mark in March for the first time this year . 
Totaling 3,399 , sales jumped 14 per cent over February's 2,963 . 
However , compared with March 1960 new car sales of 4,441 , this March was off 23 per cent . 
On a quarter-to-quarter comparison , the first quarter of 1961 total of 9,273 cars was 21 per cent behind the previous year's 3-month total of 11,744 . 
This year-to-year decline for Dallas County closely follows the national trend -- estimated sales of domestic cars in the U.S. for first three months of 1961 were about 1,212,000 or 80 per cent of the total in the first quarter a year earlier . 
With the March pickup , dealers are optimistic that the April-June quarter will equal or top last year . 
The March gain plus this optimism has been encouraging enough to prompt auto makers to boost production schedules for the next quarter . 
On the local level , compacts continue to grab a larger share of the market at the expense of lower-priced standard models and foreign cars . 
Only three standard models -- Buick , Chrysler , and Mercury -- had slight year-to-year gains in March sales in the county . 
The top 3 students from 11 participating Dallas County high schools will be honored by the Dallas Sales Executives Club at a banquet at 6 p.m. Tuesday in the Sam Houston Room of the Sheraton-Dallas Hotel as the club winds up its annual Distributive Education project . 
Now in its third year , the program is designed to provide a laboratory for those youngsters seeking careers in marketing and salesmanship . 
Business firms provide 20 weeks of practical employment to supplement classroom instruction in these fields . 
More than 500 juniors and seniors are taking part in the program and 100 firms offer jobs on an educational rather than a need basis . 
Principal address will be delivered by Gerald T. Owens , national sales manager for Isodine Pharmical Corp. of New York . 
The 33 honored students are : Mike Trigg , Raymond Arrington , and Ronald Kaminsky of Bryan Adams , Janice Whitney , Fil Terral , and Carl David Page of W. H. Adamson ; ; Bill Burke , Tommie Freeman , and Lawrence Paschall of N. R. Crozier Tech. Paulah Thompson , Gerald Kestner , and Nancy Stephenson of Hillcrest ; ; Arnold Hayes , Mary Ann Shay , and Lloyd Satterfield of Thomas Jefferson ; ; William Cluck , Deloris Carrel Carty , and Edna Earl Eaton of North Dallas ; ; Patricia Ann Neal , Johnny Carruthers , and David McLauchlin of Rylie of Seagoville ; ; David Wolverton , Sharon Flanagan , and James Weaver of W. W. Samuels ; ; William Austin , Gary Hammond , and Ronnie Davis of South Oak Cliff ; ; Bill Eaton , Carolyn Milton , and Ronnie Bert Stone of Sunset ; ; and Charles Potter , Ronnie Moore , and Robert Bailey of Woodrow Wilson . 
The Kennedy administration's new housing and urban renewal proposals , particularly their effect on the Federal Housing Administration , came under fire in Dallas last week . 
The Administration's proposals , complex and sweeping as they are , all deal with fringe areas of the housing market rather than its core , stated Caron S. Stallard , first vice-president of the Mortgage Bankers Association of America . 
Santa Barbara -- `` The present recovery movement will gather steady momentum to lift the economy to a new historic peak by this autumn '' , Beryl W. Sprinkel , economist of Harris Trust & Savings Bank , Chicago , predicted at the closing session here Tuesday of Investment Bankers Assn. , California group , conference . 
Another speaker , William H. Draper , Jr. , former Under Secretary of the Army and now with the Palo Alto venture capital firm of Draper , Gaither & Anderson , urged the U.S. to `` throw down the gauntlet of battle to communism and tell Moscow bluntly we won't be pushed around any more '' . 
He urged support for President Kennedy's requests for both defense and foreign aid appropriations . 
' not flash in pan ' Sprinkel told conferees that the recent improvement in economic activity was not a `` temporary flash in the pan '' but the beginning of a substantial cyclical expansion that will carry the economy back to full employment levels and witness a renewal of our traditional growth pattern . 
`` In view of the current expansion , which promises to be substantial '' he said the odds appear to favor rising interest rates in coming months , but `` there is reason to believe the change will not be as abrupt as in 1958 nor as severe as in late 1959 and 1960 '' . 
Thesis refuted Sprinkel strongly refuted the current neo-stagnationist thesis that we are facing a future of limited and slow growth , declaring that this pessimism `` is based on very limited and questionable evidence '' . 
Rather than viewing the abortive recovery in 1959-60 as a reason for believing we have lost prospects for growth '' , he said `` it should be viewed as a lesson well learned which will increase the probability of substantial improvement in this recovery '' . 
Danger cited He cautioned that `` the greater danger in this recovery may be excessive stimulation by government which could bring moderate inflation '' . 
The economist does not look for a drastic switch in the budget during this recovery and believes it `` even more unlikely that the Federal Reserve will aggressively tighten monetary policy in the early phases of the upturn as was the case in 1958 '' . 
The unsatisfactory 1958-60 expansion , he said , was not due to inadequate growth forces inherent in our economy but rather to the adverse effect of inappropriate economic policies combined with retrenching decisions resulting from the steel strike . 
Sacrifices needed Draper declared , `` As I see it , this country has never faced such great dangers as threaten us today . 
We must justify our heritage . 
We must be ready for any needed sacrifice '' . 
He said that from his experience of two years with Gen. Clay in West Berlin administration , that `` Russia respects our show of strength , but that presently we're not acting as we should and must '' . 
He called the Cuban tractor plan an outright blackmail action , and noted that in war `` you can't buy yourself out and that's what we're trying to do '' . 
While he declined to suggest , how , he said that sooner or later we must get rid of Castro , `` for unless we do we're liable to face similar situations in this hemisphere . 
Its the start of a direct threat to our own security and I don't believe we can permit that '' . 
New York ( AP ) -- Stock market Tuesday staged a technical recovery , erasing all of Monday's losses in the Associated Press average and making the largest gain in about two weeks . 
Analysts saw the move as a continuation of the recovery drive that got under way late Monday afternoon when the list sank to a hoped-for `` support level '' represented by around 675 in the Dow Jones industrial average . 
It was a level at which some of the investors standing on the sidelines were thought likely to buy the pivotal issues represented in the averages . 
Some good news Although it looked like a routine technical snapback to Wall Streeters it was accompanied by some good news . 
A substantial rise in new orders and sales of durable goods was reported for last month . 
Treasury Secretary Douglas Dillon said the economy is expected to advance by a whopping 8% next year , paving the way for lower taxes . 
The Dow Jones industrial average advanced 7.19 to 687.87 . 
Of 1,253 issues traded , 695 advanced and 354 declined . 
New highs for the year totaled nine and new lows 14 . 
Trading was comparatively dull throughout the day . 
Volume dipped to 3.28 million shares from 3.98 million Monday . 
A $25 billion advertising budget in an $800 billion economy was envisioned for the 1970s here Tuesday by Peter G. Peterson , head of one of the world's greatest camera firms , in a key address before the American Marketing Assn. . 
However , Peterson , president of Bell & Howell , warned 800 U.S. marketing leaders attending a national conference at the Ambassador , that the future will belong to the industrialist of creative and `` unconventional wisdom '' . 
Creations needed `` As we look to the $800 billion economy that is predicted for 1970 and the increase of about 40% in consumer expenditures that will be required to reach that goal , management can well be restless about how this tremendous volume and number of new products will be created and marketed '' , Peterson said . 
`` With this kind of new product log-jam , the premium for brilliant product planning will obviously go up geometrically '' . 
The executive paid tribute to research and development and technology for their great contributions in the past , but he also cautioned industry that they tend to be great equalizers because they move at a fairly even pace within an industry and fail to give it the short-term advantage which it often needs . 
Nothing to fear Peterson said America has nothing to fear in world competition if it dares to be original in both marketing and product ideas . 
He cited , as an example , how the American camera industry has been able to meet successfully the competition of Japan despite lower Japanese labor costs , by improving its production know-how and technology . 
He also used as an example the manufacturer who introduced an all-automatic camera in Germany , with the result that it became the best selling camera in the German market . 
Election of Howard L. Taylor to membership in Pacific Coast Stock Exchange , effective Tuesday , has been announced by Thomas P. Phelan , president of the exchange . 
Taylor , president and voting stockholder of Taylor and Co. , Beverly Hills , has been active in the securities business since 1925 . 
Union Oil Co. of California Tuesday offered $120 million in debentures to the public through a group of underwriters headed by Dillon , Read & Co. , to raise money to retire a similar amount held by Gulf Oil Corp. . 
Gulf's holdings could have been converted into 2,700,877 shares of Union Oil common upon surrender of debentures plus cash , according to Union . 
Under the new offering , only $60 million in debentures are convertible into 923,076 common shares . 
Due in 1986 The new offering Tuesday consisted of $60 million worth of 4-7/8 debentures , due June 1 , 1986 , at 100% , and $60 million of 4-1/2% convertible subordinated debentures due June 1 , 1991 , at 100% . 
The convertible debentures are convertible into common shares at $65 a share by June 1 , 1966 ; ; $70 by 1971 ; ; $75 by 1976 ; ; $80 by 1981 ; ; $85 by 1986 , and $90 thereafter . 
New York ( AP ) -- American Stock Exchange prices enjoyed a fairly solid rise but here also trading dwindled . 
Volume was 1.23 million shares , down from Monday's 1.58 million . 
Gains of 2-3/4 were posted for Teleprompter and Republic Foil . 
Fairchild Camera and Kawecki Chemical gained 2-1/2 each . 
Question -- I bought 50 shares of Diversified Growth Stock Fund on Oct. 23 , 1959 , and 50 more shares of the same mutual fund on Feb. 8 , 1960 . 
Something has gone wrong some place . 
I am getting dividends on only 50 shares . 
In other words , I am getting only half the dividends I should . 
Answer -- Write to the fund's custodian bank -- the First National Bank of Jersey City , N.J. . 
That bank handles most of the paper work for Diversified Growth Stock Fund , Fundamental Investors , Diversified Investment Fund and Television-Electronics Fund . 
The bank installed a magnetic tape electronic data processing system to handle things . 
But it seems that this `` electronic brain '' wasn't `` programmed '' correctly . 
This resulted in a great number of errors . 
And letters began to come in to this column from irate shareholders . 
I visited the bank in March and wrote a story about the situation . 
At that time , the people at the bank said they felt that they had the situation in hand . 
They indicated that no new errors were being made and that all old errors would be corrected `` within 60 days '' . 
That 60-day period is over and letters are still coming in from shareholders of these four funds , complaining about mistakes in their accounts . 
Maybe it's taking longer to get things squared away than the bankers expected . 
Any shareholder of any of these funds who finds a mistake in his account certainly should get in touch with the bank . 
Doyle cannot undertake to reply to inquiries . 
He selects queries or general interest to answer . 
Washington ( AP ) -- Alfred Hayes , president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York , said Tuesday `` there is no present need for far-reaching reforms '' which would basically alter the international financial system . 
Hayes said that if a way can be found to deal effectively with short-term capital movements between nations , `` there is no reason , in my judgment why the international financial system cannot work satisfactorily for at least the foreseeable future '' . 
Washington ( UPI ) -- New York Central Railroad president Alfred E. Perlman said Tuesday his line would face the threat of bankruptcy if the Chesapeake & Ohio and Baltimore & Ohio Railroads merge . 
Perlman said bankruptcy would not be an immediate effect of the merger , but could possibly be an ultimate effect . 
The railroad president made the statement in an interview as the Interstate Commerce Commission opened Round 2 of its hearing into the C & O's request to control and then merge with the B & Aj . 
`` All these kind of things weaken us '' , Perlman said . 
Bad condition Board Chairman Howard Simpson of the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Co. , testified the B & O was in its worst financial condition since the depression years and badly needed the economic lift it would get from consolidation with the Chesapeake & Ohio Railroad . 
`` The financial situation of the Baltimore & Ohio , has become precarious -- much worse than at any time since the depression of the 1930s '' , he told the hearing . 
C & O president Walter J. Tuohy was summoned back for cross-examination by New York Central attorneys before examiner John Bradford who is hearing the complex case . 
The New York Central also has asked the ICC to permit it to gain control of the B & Aj . 
Central was rebuffed by the other two railroads in previous attempts to make it a three-way merger . 
The proposed C & O-B & O railroad would make it the hemisphere's second largest . 
Washington ( AP ) -- The government's short-term borrowing costs rose with Tuesday's weekly offering of Treasury bills . 
On $1.1 billion of 90-day bills , the average yield was 2.325% . 
The rate a week ago was 2.295% . 
Washington , March 11 ( UPI ) . 
-- `` Consumer uncertain about economic conditions '' . 
This was the chief reason for a so-so sales outlook given by two-thirds of 56 builders polled by the National Housing Center . 
Other reasons mentioned by one-third or more of the builders were `` resistance to high interest rates , cost advantage of buying over renting has narrowed , shelter market nearing saturation and prospects unable to qualify '' . 
Increase expected The poll was taken at the Center's annual builders' intentions conference . 
It disclosed that the builders : Expect their own production volume , and presumably sales , to jump 30 percent in 1961 . 
Look for home building nationally to advance less than 10 percent this year from 1960's 1,257,700 non-farm housing starts . 
The industry has said 1960 was a poor year . 
Starts were down 20 percent from 1959 . 
Why the discrepancy between the builders' forecasts for themselves and for the industry ? 
Leaders of industry The reason , says the Housing Center , is that the builders invited to the intentions conference `` are generally among the more successful businessmen , and usually do somewhat better than their fellow builders '' . 
Elburn , Ill. -- Farm machinery dealer Bob Houtz tilts back in a battered chair and tells of a sharp pickup in sales : `` We've sold four corn pickers since Labor Day and have good prospects for 10 more . 
We sold only four pickers all last year '' . 
Gus Ehlers , competitor of Mr. Houtz in this farm community , says his business since August 1 is running 50% above a year earlier . 
`` Before then , my sales during much of the year had lagged behind 1960 by 20% '' , he says . 
Though the sales gains these two dealers are experiencing are above average for their business , farm equipment sales are climbing in most rural areas . 
Paradoxically , the sales rise is due in large measure to Government efforts to slash farm output . 
Although the Administration's program cut crop acreage to the lowest point since 1934 , farmers , with the help of extra fertilizer and good weather , are getting such high yields per acre that many are being forced to buy new harvesting machines . 
Fields of corn and some other crops in many cases are so dense that older equipment cannot handle them efficiently . 
The higher price supports provided by the new legislation , together with rising prices for farm products , are pushing up farm income , making it possible for farmers to afford the new machinery . 
Seven of the eight companies that turn out full lines of farm machinery say sales by their dealers since the start of August have shown gains averaging nearly 10% above last year . 
`` In August our dealers sold 13% more farm machinery than a year earlier and in September retail sales were 14% higher than last year '' , says Mark V. Keeler , farm equipment vice president of International Harvester Co. . 
For the year to date , sales of the company's farm equipment dealers still lag about 5% behind 1960 . 
Two of three report gains Among individual dealers questioned in nearly a score of states , two out of three report their sales since August 1 show sizable gains from a year earlier , with the increases ranging from 5% to 50% . 
Not all sections are showing an upswing , however ; ; the drought-seared North Central states are the most notable exceptions to the uptrend . 
The significance of the pickup in farm machinery sales extends beyond the farm equipment industry . 
The demand for farm machinery is regarded as a yardstick of rural buying generally . 
Farmers spend more of their income on tractors and implements than on any other group of products . 
More than 20 million people live on farms and they own a fourth of the nation's trucks , buy more gasoline than any other industry and provide a major market for home appliances , chemicals and other products . 
Farmers are so eager for new machinery that they're haggling less over prices than they did a year ago , dealers report . 
`` Farmers aren't as price conscious as last year so we can get more money on a sale '' , says Jack Martin , who sells J. I. Case tractors and implements in Sioux City , Iowa . 
`` This morning , we allowed a farmer $600 on the old picker he traded in on a new $2,700 model . 
Last year , we probably would have given him $700 for a comparable machine '' . 
Mr. Martin sold 21 tractors in August ; ; in August of 1960 , he sold seven . 
Dealers' stocks down With dealer stocks of new equipment averaging about 25% below a year ago , the affects of the rural recovery are being felt almost immediately by the country's farm equipment manufacturers . 
For example , farm equipment shipments of International Harvester in August climbed about 5% above a year earlier , Mr. Keeler reports . 
Tractor production at Massey-Ferguson , Ltd. , of Toronto in July and August rose to 2,418 units from 869 in the like period a year earlier , says John Staiger , vice president . 
With the lower dealer inventories and the stepped-up demand some manufacturers believe there could be shortages of some implements . 
Merritt D. Hill , Ford Motor Co. vice president , says his company is starting to get calls daily from dealers demanding immediate delivery or wanting earlier shipping dates on orders for corn pickers . 
Except for a few months in late 1960 and early 1961 , retail farm equipment sales have trailed year-earlier levels since the latter part of 1959 . 
The rise in sales last winter was checked when the Government's new feed grain program was adopted ; ; the program resulted in a cutback of around 20% in planted acreage and , as a result , reduced the immediate need for machines . 
Nearly all of the farm equipment manufacturers and dealers say the upturn in sales has resulted chiefly from the recent improvement in crop prospects . 
Total farm output for this year is officially forecast at 129% of the 1947-49 average , three points higher than the July 1 estimate and exactly equal to the final figure for 1960 . 
The Government also is aiding farmers' income prospects . 
Agriculture Department economists estimate the Government this year will hand farmers $1.4 billion in special subsidies and incentive payments , well above the record $1.1 billion of 1958 and about double the $639 million of 1960 . 
Price support loans may total another $1 billion this year . 
With cash receipts from marketings expected to be slightly above 1960 , farmers' gross income is estimated at $39.5 billion , $1.5 billion above 1960's record high . 
Net income may reach $12.7 billion , up $1 billion from 1960 and the highest since 1953 . 
The Government reported last week that the index of prices received by farmers rose in the month ended at mid-September for the third consecutive month , reaching 242% of the 1910-14 average compared with 237% at mid-July . 
Kennedy opposes any widespread relief from a High Court depletion ruling . 
The Supreme Court decision in mid-1960 was in the case of a company making sewer pipe from clay which it mined . 
The company , in figuring its taxable earnings , deducted a percentage of the revenue it received for its finished products . 
Such `` depletion allowances '' , in the form of percentages of sales are authorized by tax law for specified raw materials producers using up their assets . 
The High Court held that the company must apply its percentage allowance to the value of the raw materials removed from the ground , not to the revenue from finished products . 
A measure passed by Congress just before adjourning softened the ruling's impact , on prior-year returns still under review , for clay-mining companies that make brick and tile products . 
The measure allows such companies in those years to apply their mineral depletion allowances to 50% of the value of the finished products rather than the lower value of raw clay alone . 
President Kennedy , in signing the relief measure into law , stressed he regarded it as an exception . 
`` My approval of this bill should not be viewed as establishing a precedent for the enactment of similar legislation for other mineral industries '' , the President said . 
Charitable deductions come in for closer scrutiny by the I.R.S. . 
The Service announced that taxpayers making such claims may be called on to furnish a statement from the recipient organization showing the date , purpose , amount and other particulars of the contribution . 
Requests for substantiation , the Service indicated , can be especially expected in cases where it suspects the donor received some material benefit in return , such as tickets to a show . 
In such an instance , revenuers stressed , the deduction must be reduced by the value of the benefit received . 
A rule on the Federal deductibility of state taxes is contested . 
A realty corporation in Louisiana owed no tax , under Federal law , on its gain from the sale of property disposed of in line with a plan of liquidation . 
Louisiana , however , collected an income tax on the profits from the sale . 
The corporation , in filing its final Federal income return , claimed the state tax payment as a deductible expense , as permitted under U.S. tax law . 
The Revenue Service disallowed the claim , invoking a law provision that generally bars deductions for expenses incurred in connection with what it said was tax-exempt income . 
The Tax Court rejected this view . 
It said the tax-freedom of the gain in this case stemmed not from the exempt status of the income but from a special rule on corporate liquidations . 
The Tax Court decision and a similar earlier finding by the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals challenges a year-old I.R.S. ruling on the subject . 
The Service has not said what its next step will be . 
Peace Corps volunteers are assured a tax benefit under the law creating the agency . 
It provides that the $1,800 termination payment each cadet is to get , after serving a two-year hitch without pay , will be spread over both years , not taxed in its entirety at a possibly higher rate in the year received . 
The owner of a public relations firm owed no income tax on payments he received from a client company and `` kicked back '' to the company's advertising manager , the Tax Court ruled . 
The taxpayer testified that in order to retain the account he had to pad his invoices and pay the excess to the manager . 
The Court upheld the taxpayer's contention that these `` kickbacks '' were not his income though they passed through his hands . 
The Court limited its decision to the tax issue involved , commenting : `` It is not our province to pass judgment on the morality of the transaction '' . 
A portable kerosene range designed for use aboard boats is sold with a special railing to keep it from moving with the motion of the vessel . 
The Revenue Service said the addition of the attachment does not keep the range from coming under the Federal manufacturers' excise tax on household-type appliances . 
Hiring the wife for one's company may win her tax-aided retirement income . 
A spouse employed by a corporation her husband controls , for example , may be entitled to distributions under the company's pension plan as well as to her own Social Security coverage . 
She would be taxed on the pensions when received , of course , but the company's contributions would be tax-free . 
A frequent pitfall in this sort of arrangement , experts warn , is a tendency to pay the wife more than her job is worth and to set aside an excessive amount for her as retirement income . 
In that event , they note , the Revenue Service might declare the pension plan is discriminatory and deny it tax privileges under the law . 
Possible upshots : The company could be denied a deduction for its pension payments , or those payments for the wife and other employes could be ruled taxable to them in the year made . 
State briefs : Voters in four counties containing and bordering Denver authorized the imposition of an additional 2% sales tax within that area . 
Colorado has a 2% sales tax . 
Denver itself collects a 1% sales tax which is to be absorbed in the higher area tax . 
The Washington state supreme court ruled that the state's occupation tax applied to sales , made at cost to an oil company , by a wholly-owned subsidiary set up to purchase certain supplies without divulging the identity of the parent . 
The state's occupation tax is computed on gross sales . 
The court held that the tax applied to non-profit sales because the corporations realized economic benefits by doing business as two separate entities . 
Washington -- Consumer spending edged down in April after rising for two consecutive months , the Government reported . 
The Commerce Department said seasonally adjusted sales of retail stores dropped to slightly under $18 billion in April , down 1% from the March level of more than $18.2 billion . 
April sales also were 5% below those of April last year , when volume reached a record for any month , $18.9 billion ( see chart on Page One ) . 
The seasonal adjustment takes into account such factors as Easter was on April 2 this year , two weeks earlier than in 1960 , and pre-Easter buying was pushed into March . 
Commerce Department officials were inclined to explain the April sales decline as a reaction from a surge of consumer buying in March . 
Adjusted sales that month were up a relatively steep 2.5% from those of the month before , which in turn were slightly higher than the January low of $17.8 billion . 
Greer Garson , world-famous star of stage , screen and television , will be honored for the high standard in tasteful sophisticated fashion with which she has created a high standard in her profession . 
As a Neiman-Marcus award winner the titian-haired Miss Garson is a personification of the individual look so important to fashion this season . 
She will receive the 1961 `` Oscar '' at the 24th annual Neiman-Marcus Exposition , Tuesday and Wednesday in the Grand Ballroom of the Sheraton-Dallas Hotel . 
The only woman recipient , Miss Garson will receive the award with Ferdinando Sarmi , creator of chic , beautiful women's fashions ; ; Harry Rolnick , president of the Byer-Rolnick Hat Corporation and designer of men's hats ; ; Sydney Wragge , creator of sophisticated casuals for women and Roger Vivier , designer of Christian Dior shoes Paris , France , whose squared toes and lowered heels have revolutionized the shoe industry . 
The silver and ebony plaques will be presented at noon luncheons by Stanley Marcus , president of Neiman-Marcus , Beneficiary of the proceeds from the two showings will be the Dallas Society for Crippled Children Cerebral Palsy Treatment Center . 
The attractive Greer Garson , who loves beautiful clothes and selects them as carefully as she does her professional roles , prefers timeless classical designs . 
Occasionally she deserts the simple and elegant for a fun piece simply because `` It's unlike me '' . 
In private life , Miss Garson is Mrs. E. E. Fogelson and on the go most of the time commuting from Dallas , where they maintain an apartment , to their California home in Los Angeles' suburban Bel-Air to their ranch in Pecos , New Mexico . 
Therefore , her wardrobe is largely mobile , to be packed at a moment's notice and to shake out without a wrinkle . 
Her creations in fashion are from many designers because she doesn't want a complete wardrobe from any one designer any more than she wants `` all of her pictures by one painter '' . 
A favorite is Norman Norell , however . 
She likes his classic chemise . 
Her favorite cocktail dress is a Norell , a black and white organdy and silk jersey . 
Irene suits rate high because they are designed for her long-bodied silhouette . 
She also likes the femininity and charm of designs by Ceil Chapman and Helen Rose . 
Balenciaga is her favorite European designer . 
`` I bought my first dress from him when I was still a struggling young actress '' , she reminisces . 
`` I like his clothes for their drama and simplicity and appreciate the great impact he has on fashion '' . 
Black and white is her favorite color combination along with lively glowing pinks , reds , blues and greens . 
Of Scotch-Irish-Scandinavian descent , Greer Garson was born in County Down , Ireland . 
Her mother was a Greer and her father's family came from the Orkney Isles . 
Reared in England , she studied to be a teacher , earned several scholarships and was graduated with honors from the University of London . 
She took postgraduate work at the University of Grenoble in France and then returned to London to work on market research with an advertising firm . 
Her acting began with the Birmingham Repertory Company and she soon became the toast of the West End . 
Among stage performances was a starring role in `` Golden Arrow '' directed by Noel Coward . 
It was during `` Old Music '' at the St. James Theater that Hollywood's Louis B. Mayer spotted her . 
After signing a motion-picture contract , she came to America and had `` Goodbye , Mr. Chips '' as her first assignment after a year's wait . 
Other triumphs include `` Random Harvest '' , `` Madame Curie '' , `` Pride and Prejudice '' , `` The Forsythe Saga '' and `` Mrs. Miniver '' ( which won her the Academy Award in 1943 ) . 
Honors that have come to Greer Garson are countless . 
Just this April she was nominated for the seventh time for an Academy Award for her portrayal of Eleanor Roosevelt in `` Sunrise at Campobello '' . 
She gave a fine portrayal of Auntie Mame on Broadway in 1958 and has appeared in live television from `` Captain Brassbound's Conversion '' to `` Camille '' . 
She is in Madame Tussard's Waxworks in London , a princess of the Kiowa tribe and an honorary colonel in many states . 
She is adept at skeet shooting , trout fishing , Afro-Cuban and Oriental dancing and Southwestern archaeology . 
She now serves on the board of directors of the Dallas Symphony Orchestra and the Dallas Theater Center and on the board of trustees of the Dallas Museum of Fine Arts . 
She is state chairman for the New Mexico Tuberculosis and Cancer Associations . 
Both Miss Garson and her oilman-rancher husband are active supporters of Boys Clubs of America and patrons of the vivid art and opera colony that flourishes in New Mexico . 
Back in college , today's handsome Gander was the only male member of a Texas Tech class on food . 
The pretty coeds must have ogled him all day long -- but he dutifully kept his eye on the gravy . 
Last October he gave a public speech in Washington , D.C. entitled `` Are Women Here To Stay '' ? 
So you can see that Gerald G. Ramsey , director of SMU's food services , is not the ordinary type of craven , women-trodden chef . 
He is apt to rear back and claim his rights . 
Ramsey , as SMU's food wrangler , buys enough groceries to serve 32,000 meals a week . 
Tell that to the little wife when she moans at the woman's burden ! 
He also dishes up 3,000 snacks . 
And he operates three cafeterias in the Student Center , along with McElvaney Dining Hall and the athlete's tables . 
Ramsey , 6-3 , 195 and ruggedly slim , says , `` I can't remember when I didn't pester my mother to teach me to cook '' . 
He was in charge of the Hockaday School meals from 1946 to 1950 , before he moved to Aj . 
And you'll notice that in both places , there are acres of charming young ladies who with little effort spice up any chow line . 
What does he feed his SMU football mastodons at the training table ? 
`` Mostly meat and potatoes -- they have to have that go-go-go without getting too fat '' , says Ramsey . 
So he hides the mayonnaise . 
And to keep athletes' stomachs from getting jumpy under physical duress , he bans all highly flavored condiments . 
What do the pretty SMU girls like on their plates ? 
`` Pretty much hamburger , hotdogs , steak and , at night , maybe pizza '' , says the handsome food expert . 
`` Unfortunately , there is still little demand for broccoli and cauliflower '' . 
Ramsey has stoked up Harry Truman , Henry Cabot Lodge , the King of Morocco , Clement Atlee and other shiny characters . 
Once four Tibetan monks , in their saffron robes , filed through the cafeteria line . 
`` They aren't supposed to look at women , you know '' , Ramsey recalled . 
`` What with all those pretty girls around , they had a hard time '' . 
Chicken Cadillac Use one 6-ounce chicken breast for each guest . 
Salt and pepper each breast . 
Dip in melted butter and roll in flour . 
Place side by side in a 2-inch deep baking pan . 
Bake slowly about one hour at 250-275 F. until lightly brown . 
Add enough warmed cream , seasoned to taste with onion juice , to about half cover the chicken breasts . 
Bake slowly at least one-half hour longer . 
While this is baking , saute mushrooms , fresh or canned , in butter . 
Sprinkle over top of chicken breasts . 
Serve each breast on a thin slice of slow-baked ham and sprinkle with Thompson seedless grapes . 
( Leave off the ham and you call it Chicken Pontiac , says Ramsey . 
) Contemporary furniture that is neither Danish nor straight-line modern but has sculptured pattern , many design facets , warmth , dignity and an effect of utter comfort and livability . 
That is the goal of two new collections being introduced in Dallas this month . 
Though there has been some avant garde indication that contemporary furniture might go back to the boxy look of the '20's and '40's , two manufacturers chose to take the approach of the sophisticated , but warm look in contemporary . 
These two , Heritage and Drexel , chose too not to produce the exactly matching design for every piece , but a collection of correlated designs , each of which could stand alone . 
The Heritage collection , to be shown by Sanger-Harris and Anderson's Studio , has perhaps more different types of woods and decorations than any one manufacturer ever assembled together at one time . 
Called Perennian , to indicate its lasting , good today and tomorrow quality , the collection truly avoids the monotony of identical pieces . 
Walnut , wormy chestnut , pecan , three varieties of burl , hand-woven Philippine cane , ceramic tiles , marble are used to emphasize the feeling of texture and of permanence , the furniture to fit into rooms with tiled floors , brick or paneled walls , windows that bring in the outdoors . 
It is a collection with a custom-design look , offering simplicity with warmth , variety and vitality . 
The Drexel collection , called Composite , to be shown by Titche's offers a realistic approach to decorating , a mature modern that is a variation of many designs . 
Rounded posts give a soft , sculptured look , paneled doors have decorative burl panels or cane insets plus softening arches , table tops are inlaid in Macassar ebony or acacia . 
A high-legged buffet provides easy-to-reach serving , a cocktail table has small snack tables tucked under each end , recessed arched panels decorate a 60-inch long chest . 
An interesting approach to the bedroom is presented , with a young , basic , functional group of chests , dressers and corner units and a canted headboard . 
The other bedroom has heavier styling , door-fronted dressers with acacia panels , a poster bed or a bed with arched acacia panels and matching mirror . 
Colorful , bright Eastman Chromspun fabrics , with the magenta , pink and white tones predominating as well as golden shades are used with Composite . 
The fabrics have Scotchgard finish to resist soil and wrinkles . 
Design elements closely rooted to traditional forms but wearing a definite contemporary label keynote Drexel's fall 1961 group , Composite . 
The spider-leg pedestal table has a base finished in an ebony , to set off the lustrous brown of the walnut top . 
See-through design of the chairs combines both the nostalgic ladder back and an Oriental shoji flavor . 
To bring warmth to the dining area , golden orange tones are used in the fabrics . 
Dignity and comfort , in a contemporary manner , reflecting the best aspects of today's design , with substance and maturity , keynote the Perennian collection from Heritage . 
Center panel , hand-screened wood , actually is a back of one of the tall bookcases . 
Mellow bronzy-green-gold fabrics and the gleam of copper and hand-crafted ceramic accessories reiterate the mood as does the Alexander Smith carpet in all wool loop pile . 
The Vagabonds are `` on the road '' again . 
Members are on their way to Saledo , not by stage coach , but in air-conditioned cars . 
This coming weekend they have reserved the entire Stagecoach Inn and adjoining country club , Saledo , for festivities . 
Invitations have been extended to some Austin dignitaries including Gov. and Mrs. Price Daniel . 
Stagecoach Days is the theme for the weekend on the Old Chisholm Trail . 
The get-together Friday night will be a banquet at the country club patio and pool , and an orchestra will play for dancing . 
Guests will wear costumes typical of the Chisholm Trail Days . 
Ginghams and calico will be popular dress for the women . 
The men will be in western attire , including Stetsons and colored vests . 
Decorating the ballroom will be the yellow rose of Texas , in tall bushes ; ; bluebonnets and stagecoach silhouettes . 
There will be a large drawing of a sunbonnet girl with eyes that flash at the guests . 
Mr. and Mrs. Phil G. Abell are chairmen for the Saledo trip . 
Committee members aiding them in planning the entertainment are Messrs and Mmes Roy McKee , George McElyee , Jack Fanning , W. H. Roquemore and Joe Darrow . 
The travel club is comprised of 75 fun-loving couples who have as their motto `` Go Somewhere , Anywhere , Everywhere '' . 
Their activities will be climaxed in the spring of 1962 when they go to Europe . 
In the past , the men and women have chartered planes to Las Vegas and Jamaica , buses to Mineral Wells and Kerrville and private railway coaches to Shreveport and Galveston . 
Four parties are given a year . 
Two of these are in or near Dallas and the others away from the vicinity . 
Serving on the club's board are Mmes R. P. Anderson , president ; ; A. F. Schmalzried , secretary ; ; W. H. Roquemore , treasurer , and the following chairmen : Mmes McKee , publicity ; ; Lawrence B. Jones , yearbook , and Sam Laughlin , scrapbook . 
A cookie with caramel filling and chocolate frosting won $25,000 for a Minneapolis housewife in the 13th annual Pillsbury Bake-Off Tuesday . 
Mrs. Alice H. Reese , wife of an engineer and mother of a 23-year-old son , was awarded the top prize at a luncheon in the Beverly Hilton Hotel . 
Mrs. Reese entered 10 past bake-offs before she got into the finals . 
Second grand prize of $5,000 went to Mrs. Clara L. Oliver for her Hawaiian coffee ring , a rich yeast bread with coconut filling and vanilla glaze . 
Mother of five Mrs. Oliver is mother of five children and wife of a machinist . 
She lives in Wellsville , Mo. . 
Mrs. Reese baked her cookies for only the third time in the Bake-off finals . 
And the third time was the charm . 
She dreamed up the cookie recipe , tried it , liked it and entered it in the contest . 
The second baking was for photographing when told she was a finalist . 
The third time was on the floor of the Beverly Hilton ballroom and for the critical eyes and tongues of judges . 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph R. Bolker will give a dinner on Friday at their home in Beverly Hills to honor Mrs. Norman Chandler , chairman of the Music Center Building Fund Committee , and Mr. Chandler . 
Mr. Bolker heads a group within the building and development industry to raise funds in support of this cultural center for the performing arts . 
A feature of the party will be a presentation by Welton Becket , center architect , of color slides and renderings of the three-building complex . 
Foliage will glow at formal fall party Fall foliage and flowers will decorate Los Angeles Country Club for the annual formal party Saturday evening . 
More than 200 are expected at the autumn event which is matched in the spring . 
Among those with reservations are Messrs. and Mmes. William A. Thompson , Van Cott Niven , A. B. Cox , David Bricker , Samuel Perry and Robert D. Stetson . 
Others are Drs. and Mmes. Alfred Robbins , and J. Lafe Ludwig and Gen. and Mrs. Leroy Watson . 
Guests from across U.S. honor Dr. Swim When Dr. W. A. Swim celebrated his 75th birthday at the Wilshire Country Club , guests came by chartered plane from all over the country . 
A flight originating in Florida picked up guests on the East Coast and Midwest and a plane left from Seattle taking on passengers at West Coast points . 
Cocktails and a buffet supper were served to more than 100 persons who had known Dr. Swim when he practiced in Los Angeles . 
He started practice in 1917 , and served on the State Board of Medical Examiners . 
Giving up the violin opened a whole new career for Ilona Schmidl-Seeberg , a tiny Hungarian who Fritz Kreisler had predicted would have a promising career on the concert stage . 
A heart attack when she was barely 20 put an end to the 10-hour daily practicing . 
She put the violin away and took out some linen , needles and yarn to while away the long , idle days in Budapest . 
Now her modern tapestries have been exhibited on two continents and , at 26 , she feels she is on the threshold of a whole new life in Los Angeles . 
Her days as an art student at the University of Budapest came to a sudden end during the Hungarian uprisings in 1957 and she and her husband Stephen fled to Vienna . 
There they continued their studies at the university , she in art , he in architecture . 
And there she had her first showing of tapestry work . 
There's a lot of talk about the problem of education in America today . 
What most people don't seem to realize , if they aren't tied up with the thing as I am , is that 90% of the problem is transportation . 
I never dreamed of the logistical difficulties involved until , at long last , both of my boys got squeezed into high school . 
It seems like only last year that we watched them set out up the hill hand in hand on a rainy day in their yellow raincoats to finger-paint at the grammar school . 
Getting to and from school was no problem . 
They either walked or were driven . 
Now they go to a high school that is two miles away . 
One might think the problem would be similar . 
They could walk , ride on a bus or be driven . 
It's much more complex than that . 
Generally , they go to school with a girl named Gloriana , who lives down the block , and has a car . 
This is a way of getting to school , but , I understand , it entails a certain loss of social status . 
A young man doesn't like to be driven up in front of a school in a car driven by a girl who isn't even in a higher class than he is , and is also a girl . 
`` Why don't you walk to school then '' ? 
I suggested . 
`` My father walked , through two miles of snow , in Illinois '' . 
`` Did you '' ? 
I was asked . 
`` No '' , I said , `` I didn't happen to grow up in Illinois '' . 
I explained , however , that I had my share of hardship in making my daily pilgrimage to the feet of wisdom . 
I had to ride a streetcar two miles . 
Sometimes the streetcar was late . 
Sometimes there weren't even any seats . 
I had to stand up , with the ladies . 
Sometimes I got on the wrong car and didn't get to school at all , but wound up at the ocean , or some other dismal place , and had to spend the day there . 
I've tried to compromise by letting them take the little car now and then . 
When they do that my wife has to drive me to work in the big car . 
She has to have at least one car herself . 
I feel a certain loss of status when I am driven up in front of work in a car driven by my wife , who is only a woman . 
Even that isn't satisfactory . 
If they have to take any car , they'd rather take the big one . 
They say that when they take a car , Gloriana doesn't take her car , but rides with them . 
But when Gloriana rides with them they also have to take the two girls who usually ride with her , so the little car isn't big enough . 
The logic of that is impeccable , of course , except that I feel like a fool being driven up to work in a little car , by my wife , when everybody knows I have a big car and am capable of driving myself . 
The solution , naturally , is the bus . 
However , it's a half-mile walk down a steep hill from our house to the bus , and it's too hard on my legs . 
My wife could drive us down the hill and we could all walk from there . 
But that's hardly realistic . 
Nobody walks anymore but crackpots and Harry Truman , and he's already got an education . 
Advance publicity on the Los Angeles Blue Book does not mention names dropped as did the notices for the New York Social Register which made news last week . 
Published annually by William Hord Richardson , the 1962 edition , subtitled Society Register of Southern California , is scheduled to arrive with Monday morning's postman . 
Publisher Richardson has updated the Blue Book `` but it still remains the compact reference book used by so many for those ever-changing telephone numbers , addresses , other residences , club affiliations and marriages '' . 
Stars for marriage Stars throughout the volume denote dates of marriages during the past year . 
Last two to be added before the book went to press were the marriages of Meredith Jane Cooper , daughter of the Grant B. Coopers , to Robert Knox Worrell , and of Mary Alice Ghormley to Willard Pen Tudor . 
Others are Carla Ruth Craig to Dan McFarland Chandler Jr. ; ; Joanne Curry , daughter of the Ellsworth Currys , to James Hartley Gregg , and Valerie Smith to James McAlister Duque . 
Also noted are the marriages of Elizabeth Browning , daughter of the George L. Brownings , to Austin C. Smith Jr. ; ; Cynthia Flower , daughter of the Ludlow Flowers Jr. , to Todd Huntington , son of the David Huntingtons . 
Pasadena listings Listed as newly wed in the Pasadena section of the new book are Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Moody Haskins 3 . 
She is the former Judy Chapman , daughter of John S. Chapman of this city . 
The young couple live in Pasadena . 
Another marriage of note is that of Jane McAlester and William Louis Pfau . 
Changes in address are noted . 
For instance , the Edwin Pauleys Jr. , formerly of Chantilly Rd. , are now at home on North Arden Dr. in Beverly Hills . 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Moulton now live on Wilshire and the Franklin Moultons on S. Windsor Blvd. . 
The Richard Beesemyers , formerly of Connecticut , have returned to Southern California and are now residing on South Arden Blvd. . 
But the Raoul Esnards have exchanged their residence in Southern California for Mexico City . 
More new addresses Judge and Mrs. Julian Hazard are now at Laguna Beach , while the Frank Wangemans have moved from Beverly Hills to New York , where he is general manager of the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel . 
And Lawrence Chase , son of the Ransom Chases , is listed at his new address in Oxford , Eng. . 
Others listed at new addresses are the Richard T. Olerichs , the Joseph Aderholds Jr. , the Henri De La Chapelles , the John Berteros and Dr. and Mrs. Egerton Crispin , the John Armisteads , the Allen Chases , the Howard Lockies , the Thomas Lockies , and Anthony Longinotti . 
Newcomers of social note from other parts of the country are the Ray Carbones , formerly of Panama ; ; the Geddes MacGregors , formerly of Scotland , and Mr. and Mrs. Werner H. Althaus , formerly of Switzerland . 
Here's an idea for a child's room that is easy to execute and is completely charming , using puppets for lamp bases . 
Most children love the animated puppet faces and their flexible bodies , and they prefer to see them as though the puppets were in action , rather than put away in boxes . 
Displayed as lamps , the puppets delight the children and are decorative accent . 
To create such a lamp , order a wired pedestal from any lamp shop . 
Measure the puppet to determine the height of the light socket , allowing three to four inches above the puppet's head . 
Make sure that the metal tube through which the wire passes is in the shape of an inverted `` L '' , the foot of the `` L '' about three inches long , so that the puppet can hang directly under the light . 
Pulling strings Using the strings that manipulate the puppet , suspend him from the light fixture by tying the strings to the lamp base . 
In this way , you can arrange his legs and arms in any desired position , with feet , or one foot , barely resting on the pedestal . 
If the puppets are of uniform size , you can change them in accord with your child's whims . 
Although a straight drum shade would be adequate and sufficiently neutral that the puppets could be changed without disharmony , it is far more fun to create shades in the gay spirit of a child's playtime . 
Those illustrated are reminiscent of a circus top or a merry-go-round . 
The scalloped edge is particularly appealing . 
Today's trend toward furniture designs from America's past is teaching home-owners and decorators a renewed respect for the shrewd cabinetmakers of our Colonial era . 
A generation ago there were plenty of people who appreciated antiques and fine reproductions . 
In the background lurked the feeling , however , that these pieces , beautiful as they were , lacked the utilitarian touch . 
So junior's bedroom was usually tricked out with heavy , nondescript pieces that supposedly could take the `` hard knocks '' , while the fine secretary was relegated to the parlor where it was for show only . 
This isn't true of the many homemakers of the 1960's , according to decorator consultant , Leland Alden . 
Housewives are finding literally hundreds of ways of getting the maximum use out of traditional designs , says Mr. Alden and they are doing it largely because Colonial craftsmen had `` an innate sense of the practical '' . 
Solid investment There are a number of reasons why the Eighteenth Century designer had to develop `` down to earth '' designs -- or go out of business . 
Hotel Escape's Bonanza room has a real bonanza in its new attraction , the versatile `` Kings 4 , Plus Two '' . 
This is the strongest act to hit the area in a long while -- a well integrated , fast moving outfit specializing in skits , vocals , comedy and instrumentals all of it distinctly displaying the pro touch . 
Show spotlights the Kings -- George Worth , Bill Kay , Frank Ciciulla and Gene Wilson , flanked by Dave Grossman and Ron Stevens . 
The Plus Two remain at a fixed position with drums and guitar but the quartet covers the stage with a batch of instruments ranging from tuba to tambourine , and the beat is solid . 
In the comedy division , the Kings simply augment talent and imagination with a few props . 
Net result is some crazy-wonderful nonsense , part of which can be classed as pure slapstick . 
Kings 4 , have rated as a popular act in Vegas and Western nightclubs . 
If they can't chalk up big business here then let's stop this noise about how hip we are , and stick to our community singing , elsewhere Andy Bartha and his trio have booked into Oceania Lounge . 
The Cumbancheros , Latin combo , open Tuesday at the Four O'Clock Club . 
`` Flip '' Phillips for a return engagement at Fireside Steak Ranch Wednesday ; ; same date , Johnny LaSalle trio to the Jolly Roger . 
Dick Carroll and his accordion ( which we now refer to as `` Freida '' ) held over at Bahia Cabana where `` Sir '' Judson Smith brings in his calypso capers Oct. 13 . 
Johnny Leighton picked up some new numbers out in Texas which he's springing on the ringsiders in the Rum House at Galt Ocean Mile Hotel . 
`` Skip '' Hovarter back in town from a summer in the Reno-Lake Tahoe area where he ran into Rusty Warren , Kay Martin , the Marskmen and Tune Toppers -- all pulling good biz , he says . 
We like Fike Al Fike , an ex-schoolteacher from Colorado , is currently pursuing the three R's -- rhythm , reminiscence and repartee -- in a return class session at the Trade Winds Hotel . 
Al has added some sidemen to the act which makes for a smoother operation but it's substantially the same format heard last spring . 
Newcomers are Ernie Kemm on piano , Wes Robbins , bass and trumpet , and Jack Kelly on drums . 
It's a solid show but , except for some interim keyboarding by Ernie , it's Al's all the way . 
Maestro's biggest stock in trade is his personality , and ability to establish a warm rapport with his audience . 
He skips around from jazz , to blues to boogie -- accompanying himself on piano and frequently pulling the customers in on the act . 
This is a bouncy show which may get a little too frantic at times , but is nevertheless worth your appraisal . 
New owners Cafe Society opens formally this afternoon under its new ownership . 
George Kissak is the bossman ; ; Terry Barnes has been named manager . 
Spot retains the same decor although crystal chandeliers have been installed above the terrace dining area , and the kitchen has undergone a remodeling job . 
Latter domain , under the guidance of Chef Tom Yokel , will specialize in steaks , chops , chicken and prime beef as well as Tom's favorite dish , stuffed shrimp . 
Bandstand features Hal DeCicco , pianist , for both dinner hour and the late trade . 
The Tic-Tac-Toe trio is the club's new show group which also plays for dancing . 
Here and there Herbert Heilman in town for a day . 
Hubie's restaurant activities up in Lorain , Ohio , may preclude his return here until after Oct. 20 , date set for reopening the Heilman Restaurant on Sunman Restaurant on Sunrise . 
Louise Franklin cornering the gift shop market in Lauderdale . 
Vivacious redhead debuts another shop , her sixth , in the Governor's Club Hotel this week . 
Sunday New Orleans brunches continue at the Trade Winds but the daily French buffets have been called off . 
Mackey Airline's new Sunshine Inn at Bimini set to open some time this month , according to Hank Johnson . 
Student Prince Lounge on Atlantic Blvd. plotting a month-long `` festival '' throughout October , with special features . 
Don Drinkhouse of Pal's Restaurant planning a reunion with the Miami Playboy Club's pianist , Julian Gould . 
Two were in the same band 18 years ago ; ; Don , who played drums , hasn't seen his chum since . 
Steak House has such a run on beer to wash down that Mexican food `` Tex '' Burgess had to call the draft man twice in one day . 
( Which is understandable -- if you've ever sampled the exotic , peppery fare . 
) faces in places Pualani and Randy Avon , Dave Searles , George ( Papa ) Gill , Al Bandish , Jim Morgart , Bob Neil at the Mouse Trap . 
Billy and Jean Moffett at the Rickshaw . 
Bea Morley , Jimmy Fazio , Jim O'Hare , Ralph Michaels , Bill and Evelyn Perry at the Escape . 
Murphy honors hear that Patricia Murphy flies up to St. John's Newfoundland , next Sunday to attend the government's special ceremonies at Memorial University honoring distinguished sons and daughters of the island province . 
Miss Murphy was born in Placentia , Newfoundland . 
Her invitation from Premier Joseph Smallwood is reported to be the only one extended to a woman . 
Fort Lauderdale -- The first in a series of five productions will be held in War Memorial Auditorium Thursday , Oct. 26 . 
`` Le Theatre D'Art Du Ballet '' , of Monte Carlo , will present a program of four ballets including `` Francesca Da Rimini '' . 
Performers include a company of 46 dancers and a symphony orchestra . 
The series of ballets is sponsored by the Milenoff Ballet Foundation , Inc. , a non-profit foundation with headquarters in Coral Gables . 
Also set for appearances at the auditorium this season are : `` American Ballet Theatre '' on Jan. 27 , `` Ximenez-Vargas Ballet Espagnol '' on Feb. 2 ; ; Jorge Bolet , pianist , on Feb. 23 ; ; and `` Dancers of Bali '' on March 8 . 
Hollywood -- A Southeast Library Workshop will be held here Oct. 9 , conducted by Mrs. Gretchen Schenk of Summerdale , Ala. , author , lecturer and library leader . 
The workshop will begin at 10 a.m. and end at 3 p.m. in the auditorium of the Library and Fine Arts Building . 
There is no registration fee but there will be a charge of $2.50 for the luncheon to be held in the library and fine arts building . 
Anyone interested in attending the meeting may have reservations with Mrs. John Whelan at the Hollywood Public Library . 
At the workshop , Mrs. Schenk will discuss `` the board and the staff , librarian-board relationships , personnel policies , how good is our librarian and staff , how good am I as a library board member and how good is our library '' . 
Other workshops will be in Tallahassee Oct. 5 ; ; Jacksonville , Oct. 6 ; ; Orlando , Oct. 10 ; ; Plant City Oct. 11 . 
Fort Lauderdale -- A series of high school assemblies to acquaint junior and senior students with the Junior Achievement program begins at St. Thomas Aquinas Monday . 
Subsequent assemblies will be held at Stranahan High School Tuesday , at Pompano Beach High Wednesday , and at Fort Lauderdale high Thursday . 
The business education program operates with the cooperation of local high schools and business firms . 
Is there anything a frustrated individual can do about Communism's growing threat on our doorstep and around the world ? 
More than 300 teenagers last Sunday proved there is and as many more are expected to prove it again for Jim Kern and his wife Lynn from 4 to 8 p.m. Sunday at First Presbyterian Church . 
At that time the second half of the Christian Youth Crusade against Communism will be staged . 
A young real estate salesman , Kern first got seriously interested in the problems posed by Communism when in the Navy Air Force . 
He was particularly struck by a course on Communist brainwashing . 
Kern began reading a lot about the history and philosophy of Communism , but never felt there was anything he , as an individual , could do about it . 
When he attended the Christian Anti-Communist Crusade school here about six months ago , Jim became convinced that an individual can do something constructive in the ideological battle and set out to do it . 
The best approach , he figured , was to try to influence young people like the high schoolers he and his wife serve as advisors at First Presbyterian Church . 
And he wanted to be careful that the kids not only learn about Communist but also about what he feels is the only antidote -- a Biblically strong Christianity . 
So the Christian Youth Crusade against Communisn developed and more than 300 top teenagers and 65 adult advisers from Presbyterian churches of the area sat enthralled at the four-hour program . 
This Sunday those attending the second session will hear a lecture by Kern on the world situation ; ; a review of the philosophy of Communist leaders by Ted Slack , another real estate agent who became interested as a philosophy major at the University of Miami ; ; and talks on how their Christian faith can guide them in learning about and fighting Communism during high school and college days , by Ted Place , director of Greater Miami Youth for Christ , and Jon Braun , director of Campus Crusade for Christ . 
The second half of the film `` Communism on the Map '' and the movie `` Operation Abolition '' also will be shown . 
Response to the program has been so encouraging , Kern said , that a city-wide youth school at Dade County Auditorium may be set up soon . 
And to encourage other churches to try their own programs , Kern said this Sunday's sessions -- including the free dinner -- will be open to anyone who makes reservations . 
The need for and the way to achieve a Christian home will be stressed in special services marking National Christian Family Week in Miami area churches next week . 
Of particular meaning to the Charles MacWhorter family , 3181 SW 24th Ter. , will be the Family Dedication Service planned for 10:50 a.m. Sunday at First Christian Church . 
It will be the second time the assistant manager of a Coral Gables restaurant and his wife have taken part in the twice-a-year ceremonies for families with new babies . 
The first one , two years ago , changed the routine of their home life . 
`` When you stand up in public and take vows to strive to set an example before your children and to teach them the fundamentals of the Christian faith , you strive a little harder to uphold those vows '' , explains the slender vice president of the young couples Sunday school class . 
Until that first dedication service , he and Lois felt their children were too young to take part in any religious life at home . 
They have five daughters -- Coral Lee , 5 , Glenda Rae , 4 , Pamela , 3 , Karen , 2 , and Shari , five months . 
But after that service , they decided to try to let the girls say grace at the table , have bedtime prayers , and Bible stories . 
To their surprise , the children all were eager and quite able to take part . 
Even the two-year-old feels miffed if the family has a prayer-time without her . 
Dade's chief probation officer , Jack Blanton , will lead a discussion on `` The Changes in the American Family '' at 7:30 p.m. Sunday at Christ Lutheran Church . 
Mr. and Mrs. George Treadwell will be honored at a Family Week supper and program at 6 p.m. Sunday at Trinity Methodist Church . 
He is the sexton of the church . 
A family worship service will follow the program at 7:45 p.m. . 
The outstanding family of Central Nazarene Church will be picked by ballot from among eight families during the 10:45 a.m. Sunday service marking National Family Week . 
Every family of Riviera Presbyterian Church has been asked to read the Bible and pray together daily during National Christian Family Week and to undertake one project in which all members of the family participate . 
To start the week of special programs at the church , the Rev. John D. Henderson will preach on `` A Successful Marriage '' at 9:40 and 11 a.m. Sunday . 
New officers of the church will be ordained and installed at the 7:30 p.m. service . 
A father and son dinner sponsored by the Men's Club will be held at 6:15 p.m. Monday and the annual church picnic at 4 p.m. next Saturday . 
The week will end with the Rev. Mr. Henderson preaching on `` The Marriage Altar '' at 7:30 p.m. Sunday , May 14 . 
The resignation of the Rev. Warren I. Densmore , headmaster of St. Stephen's Episcopal Day School in Coconut Grove , becomes effective July 15 . 
Enrique Jorda , conductor and musical director of the San Francisco Symphony , will fulfill two more guest conducting engagements in Europe before returning home to open the symphony's Golden Anniversary season , it was announced . 
The guest assignments are scheduled for November 14 and 18 , with the Orchestra Sinfonica Siciliana in Palermo and the Orchestra of Radio Cologne . 
The season in San Francisco will open with a special Gala Concert on November 22 . 
During his five-month visit abroad , Jorda recently conducted the Orchestre Philharmonique De Bordeau in France , and the Santa Cecilia Orchestra in Rome . 
In announcing Jorda's return , the orchestra also announced that the sale of single tickets for the 50th anniversary season will start at the Sherman Clay box office on Wednesday . 
Guest performers and conductors during the coming season will include many renowned artists who began their careers playing with the orchestra , including violinists Yehudi Menuhin , Isaac Stern , Ruggiero Ricci and David Abel ; ; pianists Leon Fleisher , Ruth Slenczynka and Stephen Bishop and conductor Earl Bernard Murray . 
The Leningrad Kirov Ballet , which opened a series of performances Friday night at the Opera House , is , I think , the finest `` classical '' ballet company I have ever seen , and the production of the Petipa-Tschaikowsky `` Sleeping Beauty '' with which it began the series is incomparably the finest I have ever had the pleasure of witnessing . 
This work is no favorite of mine . 
I am prepared to demonstrate at anytime that it represents the spirit of Imperial Russia in its most vulgar , infantile , and reactionary aspect ; ; that its persistent use by ballet companies of the Soviet regime indicates that that old spirit is just as stultifying alive today as it ever was ; ; that its presentation in this country is part of a capitalist plot to boobify the American people ; ; that its choreography is undistinguished and its score a shapeless assemblage of self-plagiarisms . 
All of this is true and all of it is totally meaningless in the face of the Kirov's utterly captivating presentation . 
Precise The reasons for this enchantment are numerous , but most of them end in `` ova '' , `` eva '' , or `` aya '' . 
In other words , no merely male creature can resist that corps de ballet . 
It seems to have been chosen exclusively from the winners of beauty contests -- Miss Omsk , Miss Pinsk , Miss Stalingr oops , skip it . 
These qualities alone , however , would not account for their success , and it took me a while to discover the crowning virtue that completes this company's collective personality . 
It is a kind of friendliness and frankness of address toward the audience which we have been led to believe was peculiar to the American ballet . 
Oh-the-pain-of-it , that convention of Russian ballet whereby the girls convey the idea that they are all the daughters of impoverished Grand Dukes driven to the stage out of filial piety , is totally absent from the Kirov . 
This is all the more remarkable because the Kirov is to ballet what Senator Goldwater is to American politics . 
But , obviously , at least some things have changed for the better in Russia so far as the ballet is concerned . 
Irina Kolpakova , the Princess Aurora of Friday's performance , would be a change for the better anywhere , at any time , no matter who had had the role before . 
She is the most beautiful thing you ever laid eyes on , and her dancing has a feminine suavity , lightness , sparkle , and refinement which are simply incomparable . 
Hit Alla Sizova , who seems to have made a special hit in the East , was delightful as the lady Bluebird and her partner , Yuri Soloviev , was wonderfully virile , acrobatic , and poetic all at the same time , in a tradition not unlike that of Nijinsky . 
Vladilen Semenov , a fine `` danseur noble '' ; ; Konstantin Shatilov , a great character dancer ; ; and Inna Zubkovskaya , an excellent Lilac Fairy , were other outstanding members of the cast , but every member of the cast was magnificent . 
The production , designed by Simon Virsaladze , was completely traditional but traditional in the right way . 
It was done with great taste , was big and spacious , sumptuous as the dreams of any peasant in its courtly costumes , but sumptuous in a muted , pastel-like style , with rich , quiet harmonies of color between the costumes themselves and between the costumes and the scenery . 
Evegeni Dubovskoi conducted an exceptionally large orchestra , one containing excellent soloists -- the violin solos by the concertmaster , Guy Lumia , were especially fine -- but one in which the core of traveling players and the body of men added locally had not had time to achieve much unity . 
Mail orders are now being received for the series of concerts to be given this season under the auspices of the San Francisco Chamber Music Society . 
The season will open at the new Hall of Flowers in Golden Gate Park on November 20 at 8:30 p.m. with a concert by the Mills Chamber Players . 
Sustaining members may sign up at $25 for the ten-concert season ; ; annual members may attend for $16 . 
Participating members may attend five of the concerts for $9 ( not all ten concerts as was erroneously announced earlier in The Chronicle ) . 
Mail orders for the season and orders for single tickets at $2 , may be addressed to the society , 1044 Chestnut Street , San Francisco 9 . 
San Francisco firemen busied themselves last week with their annual voluntary task of fixing up toys for distribution to needy children . 
Fire Fighters Local 798 , which is sponsoring the toy program for the 12th straight year , issued a call for San Franciscans to turn in discarded toys , which will be repaired by off-duty firemen . 
Toys will not be collected at firehouses this year . 
They will be accepted at all branches of the Bay View Federal Savings and Loan Association , at a collection center in the center of the Stonestown mall , and at the Junior Museum , 16th Street and Roosevelt Way . 
From the collection centers , toys will be taken to a warehouse at 198 Second street , where they will be repaired and made ready for distribution . 
Any needy family living in San Francisco can obtain toys by writing to Christmas Toys , 676 Howard street , San Francisco 5 , and listing the parent's name and address and the age and sex of each child in the family between the ages of 1 and 12 . 
Requests must be mailed in by December 5 . 
Famed cellist Pablo Casals took his instrument to the East Room of the White House yesterday and charmed the staff with a two-hour rehearsal . 
He was getting the feel of the room for a concert tomorrow night for Puerto Rico Governor Luis Munoz Marin . 
President Kennedy's invitation to the Spanish-born master said , `` We feel your performance as one of the world's greatest artists would lend distinction to the entertainment of our guests '' . 
For A good many seasons I've been looking at the naughty stuff on television , so the other night I thought I ought to see how immorality is doing on the other side of the fence in movies . 
After all , this year's movies are next year's television shows . 
So I went to see `` La Dolce Vita '' . 
It has been billed as a towering monument to immorality . 
All the sins of ancient Rome are said to be collected into this three-hour film . 
If that's all the Romans did , it's a surprise to me that Rome fell . 
After television , `` La Dolce Vita '' seems as harmless as a Gray Line tour of North Beach at night . 
I cannot imagine a single scene that isn't done in a far naughtier manner on TV every week . 
I believe TV watchers will be bored . 
`` La Dolce Vita '' has none of the senseless brutality or sadism of the average TV Western . 
Week in , week out , there is more sex to be seen in `` The Adventures Of Ozzie And Harriet '' . 
There is more decadence on `` 77 Sunset Strip '' . 
There are more obvious nymphomaniacs on any private-eye series . 
In another respect , television viewers will feel right at home because most of the actors are unknowns . 
With the exception of Lex Barker and Anita Ekberg , the credits are as unfamiliar as you'll find on the Robert Herridge Theater . 
Most of the emphasis has been placed on a `` wild party '' at a seaside villa . 
Producer Fellini should have looked at some of the old silent films where they really had parties ! 
The Dolce Vita get-together boasted a strip tease ( carried as far as a black slip ) ; ; a lady drunk on her hands and knees who carries the hero around on her back while he throws pillow feathers in her face ; ; a frigid beauty , and three silly fairies . 
Put them all together and they spell out the only four-letter word I can think of : dull . 
Apparently Fellini caught the crowd when its parties had begun to pall . 
What a swinging group they must have been when they first started entertaining ! 
As A moral shocker it is a dud . 
But this doesn't detract from its merit as an interesting , if not great , film . 
The Chronicle's Paine Knickerbocker summed it up neatly : `` This is a long picture and a controversial one , but basically it is a moral , enthralling and heartbreaking description of humans who have become unlinked from life as perhaps Rome has from her traditional political , cultural and religious glories '' . 
And when they sell it to television in a couple of years , it can be shown without editing . 
Tonight Atlantic Monthly editor Edward Weeks moderates a round table of four Russian writers in a discussion of Soviet literature . 
Among the subjects discussed will be Russian restrictions on poets and writers in the USSR ( Channel 9 at 9:30 ) . 
Person To Person ventilates the home lives of Johnny Mercer and Joan Collins -- both in Southern California ( Channel 5 at 10:30 ) KQED Summer Music Festival features a live concert by the Capello De Musica ( Channel 9 at 8:30 ) . 
NBC plans a new series of three long programs exploring America's scientific plans titled `` Threshold '' , to start in the fall . 
`` Science In Action '' , San Francisco's venerable television program , will be seen in Hong Kong this fall in four languages : Mandarin , Cantonese , Chiuchow and English , according to a tip from Dr. Robert C. Miller . 
And you think you have language problems . 
The week went along briskly enough . 
I bought a new little foreign bomb . 
It is a British bomb . 
Very austere yet racy . 
It is very chic to drive foreign cars . 
With a foreign car you must wear a cap -- it has a leather band in the back . 
You must also wear a car coat . 
The wardrobe for a foreign bomb is a little expensive . 
But we couldn't really get along without it . 
`` Where do you put the lighter fluid , ha , ha '' ? 
Asked the gas station man . 
The present crop of small cars is enriching American humor . 
Gas station people are very debonair about small cars . 
When I drove a car with tail fins , I had plenty status at the wind-and-water oases . 
My car gulped 20 gallons without even wiping its mouth . 
This excellent foreign bomb takes only six . 
When I had my big job with the double headlights and yards of chrome , the gas people were happy to see me . 
`` Tires OK ? 
Check the oil and water , sir ? 
'' They polished the windshield . 
They had a loving touch . 
The man stuck the nozzle in the gas tank . 
`` What kind of car is it '' ? 
He asked gloomily . 
`` It is a British Austin , the smallest they make '' . 
`` Get much mileage '' ? 
`` About 35 '' . 
The gas station man sighed unhappily . 
`` What I always say is what if somebody clobbers you in a little car like that ? 
Crunch , that's all she wrote '' . 
`` I will die rich '' . 
`` That will be $1.80 '' , said the gas station man . 
`` The windshield looks pretty clean '' . 
Ah , the fair-weather friends of yesteryear ! 
When I wheeled about , finned fore and aft , I was the darling of the doormen . 
Dollar bills skidded off my hands and they tipped their caps politely . 
With a small bomb , I tuck it between Cadillacs . 
( The last doorman that saw me do that should calm himself . 
High blood pressure can get the best of any of us . 
) At last the White House is going to get some much-copied furniture by that master American craftsman , Duncan Phyfe , whose designs were snubbed in his lifetime when the U. S. Presidents of the 19th Century sent abroad for their furnishings . 
The American Institute of Decorators has acquired a rare complete set of sofas and chairs which are to be placed in the Executive Mansion's library . 
The suite has been in the same family since the early 1800's . 
The gift is being presented by `` heirs and descendants of the Rutherford family of New Jersey , whose famous estate , `` Tranquility '' , was located near the Duncan Phyfe workshop at Andover , N. J. . 
Authenticated pieces of Duncan Phyfe furniture are uncommon , although millions of American homes today display pieces patterned after the style trends he set 150 years ago . 
This acquisition is a matched , perfect set -- consisting of two sofas six feet long , plus six sidechairs and two armchairs . 
The AID has undertaken the redecoration of the White House library as a project in connection with the work being done by First Lady Jacqueline Kennedy's Fine Arts Advisory Committee to secure antiques for the presidential home . 
It is the AID's intention to create in the library `` a miniature museum of Americana '' before completed refurbishing is unveiled early this fall . 
The room will also feature another rarity many antiquarians would consider more important than the Duncan Phyfe furniture . 
The AID has found a mantlepiece attributed to Samuel McIntyre of Salem , Mass. , an architect and woodcarver who competed for the designing of the Capitol here in 1792 . 
The mantel was found in a recently demolished Salem house and is being fitted over the White House library fireplace . 
It will be painted to match the paneling in the room . 
The AID committee's chairman in charge of the redecoration , Mrs. Henry Francis Lenygon , was in town yesterday to consult with White House staff members on the project . 
Mrs. Lenygon's committee associates , announced formally yesterday by the AID in New York , include Mrs. Allen Lehman McCluskey and Stephen J. Jussel , both wellknown Manhattan decorators . 
Regional representatives appointed to serve from each section of the country include Frank E. Barnes of Boston . 
President Kennedy couldn't stay away from his desk for the 75-minute young people's concert played on the White House lawn yesterday by the 85-piece Transylvania Symphony Orchestra from Brevard , N. C. . 
But he left the doors to his office open so he could hear the music . 
At 4 p.m. the President left the White House to welcome the young musicians , students from the ages of 12 to 18 who spend six weeks at the Brevard Music Center summer camp , and to greet the 325 crippled , cardiac and blind children from the District area who were special guests at the concert . 
It was the first in the series of `` Concerts for Young People by Young People '' to be sponsored by First Lady Jacqueline Kennedy at the White House . 
She was not present yesterday , however , to enjoy the music or watch the faces of the delighted audience . 
She is vacationing at the Kennedy summer home in Hyannis Port , Mass. , and in his welcoming remarks , the President said he was representing her . 
As he approached the open bandstand , erected facing the South entrance to the Executive Mansion , the band struck up the `` Star Spangled Banner '' and followed it with `` Hail To The Chief '' . 
`` I think they played Hail To The Chief better than the Marine Corps Band , and we are grateful to them '' , President Kennedy remarked after mounting the bandstand and shaking hands with conductor James Christian Pfohl . 
After paying tribute to the conductor and his white-clad youthful students , President Kennedy said , `` As an American I have the greatest possible pride in the work that is being done in dozens of schools stretching across the United States -- schools where devoted teachers are studying with interested young men and women and opening up the whole wide horizon of serious music '' . 
He added `` I think that sometimes in this country we are not aware as we should be of the extraordinary work that is being done in this field '' . 
Displaying his knowledge of music , the New England-born President remarked that `` probably the best chamber music in the world is played in Vermont , by young Americans -- and here in this school where they have produced extraordinary musicians and teachers , and their work is being duplicated all across the United States . 
`` This is a great national cultural asset , and therefore it is a great source of satisfaction to me , representing as I do today my wife , to welcome all of you here today at the White House '' . 
As he left the bandstand to return to his office , the slender , sun-tanned Chief Executive paused along the way to shake hands with the members of the audience in wheel chairs forming the first row under the field tent set up for the guests . 
He expressed surprise to learn that pretty , blonde Patricia Holbrook , 16 , of Mount Rainier , had attended the Joseph P. Kennedy School for the Handicapped in Boston . 
`` The nuns there do a wonderful work '' , the President commented . 
Patricia now attends the C. Melvin Sharpe Health School in the District . 
Each of the children invited to the concert wore a name tag marked with a red , white and blue ribbon . 
They enjoyed lemonade and cookies served before and during the concert by teenage sons and daughters of members of the White House staff . 
Many of the music-loving members of the President's staff gathered around the tent listening and watching the rapt attention given by the young seated audience . 
And it turned out to be more of a family affair than expected . 
Henry Hall Wilson , a student at the music camp 25 years ago and now on the President's staff as liaison representative with the House of Representatives , turned guest conductor for a Sousa march , the `` Stars and Stripes Forever '' . 
Transylvania Symphony Conductor Pfohl said yesterday that Mrs. Kennedy's Social Secretary , Letitia Baldrige , told about plans for White House youth concerts before the National Symphony Orchestra League in Philadelphia last spring . 
He said he contacted a friend , Henry Hall Wilson , on the President's staff and asked whether his orchestra could play , in the series . 
A flow of correspondence between Pfohl and Miss Baldrige resulted in an invitation to the 85-student North Carolina group to play the first concert . 
One of the most interested `` students '' on the tour which the Brevard group took at the National Gallery yesterday following their concert at the White House , was Letitia Baldrige , social secretary to First Lady Jacqueline Kennedy . 
`` I was an art major in college '' , Miss Baldrige explained . 
`` I've been here so many times I couldn't count them '' . 
She turned out to be a fan , too , of Margaret Bouton , the Gallery's associate curator of education . 
Miss Bouton headed up one of the four groups that went on simultaneous tours after the Gallery had closed at 5 p.m. . 
The Brevard group of 85 arrived at the Gallery at 6 p.m. , remaining for about 45 minutes . 
The Brevard visitors had very little to say at the beginning of the tour but warmed up later . 
They decided that they thought Rembrandt's self-portrait made him look `` sad '' ; ; they noticed Roman buildings in the background of Raphael's `` Alba Madonna '' and `` texture '' in a Monet painting of Rheims Cathedral . 
Everybody had heard of Van Gogh , the French impressionist . 
Gallery Director John Walker greeted the group , standing on one of the benches in the downstairs lobby to speak to them . 
He pointed out to the young musicians that the National Gallery `` is the only museum in the country to have a full-time music director , Richard Bales . 
I'm sure you've heard of him and his record , ' The Confederacy ' '' . 
Along with the gallery aide who explained the various paintings and sculptures to each group , went one of the Gallery's blue-uniformed guards . 
In 45 minutes , the Gallery leaders had given the students a quick rundown on art from the Renaissance to the late 19th Century . 
A few of them said they `` preferred contemporary art '' . 
Among the other artists , whose paintings were discussed were Boucher , Courbet , Fra Angelico . 
The thing that impressed one of the visitors the most was the Gallery's rotunda fountain `` because it's on the second floor '' . 
That imposing , somewhat austere , and seemingly remote collonaded building with the sphynxes perched on its threshold at 1733 16th St. nw. took on bustling life yesterday . 
More than 250 Scottish Rite Masons and guests gathered in their House of the Temple to pay tribute to their most prominent leader , Albert Pike , who headed the Scottish Rite from 1859 to 1891 . 
They came together in the huge , high-ceilinged Council Chamber to hear the late leader eulogized . 
C. Wheeler Barnes of Denver , head of the Scottish Rite in Colorado , praised Pike as a historian , author , poet , journalist , lawyer , jurist , soldier and musician , who devoted most of his mature years to the strengthening of the Masonic Order . 
The ceremony ended with the laying of a wreath at the crypt of Pike in the House of the Temple . 
A reception and tea followed . 
About 1500 delegates are expected to register today for the biennial session of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite for the Southern Jurisdiction of the United States . 
The opening session of the 5-day session will begin at 10 a.m. today . 
There will be a pilgrimage to Mount Vernon at 2:30 p.m. . 
A wreath will be placed at the tomb of George Washington , one of this Nation's first Masons -- a past master of Washington-Alexandria Lodge 22 in Alexandria . 
The marriage of John and Mary Black had clearly reached the breaking point after eight years . 
John had a job in a small firm where the work was dull and monotonous . 
He would come home in the evening tired and discouraged -- in no frame of mind to play with their three children , or spend much time chatting with his wife . 
Hurt by his lack of interest and attention , Mary complained often that he didn't help around the house , and that he didn't really care about the family . 
She accused him of ignoring her . 
He in turn told her she demanded too much . 
They were both discouraged , disgusted and miserable . 
Mary decided she had had enough . 
Without any definite plan in mind , she went to a judge to see what could be done . 
The judge listened quietly as the young woman poured out her frustrations -- then discussing with her the possibility of seeking aid from Family Service before going to a lawyer . 
Family Service , sharing in UGF , has five agencies in the Washington area . 
They offer to the people of this community case work service and counseling on a wide variety of family problems . 
Because neither of them really wanted their marriage to break up , Mr. and Mrs. Black agreed to a series of interviews at Family Service of Northern Virginia , the agency nearest them . 
For nearly a year , they have been receiving counseling , separately and together , in an effort to understand and overcome the antagonisms which had given rise to the possibility of divorce . 
The interviews have led each of them to a new appreciation of the problems confronting the other . 
They are now working together toward solving their difficulties . 
John received a promotion in his firm . 
He gives credit for the promotion to his new outlook on life . 
Mary is cheery and gay when her husband comes home in the evenings , and the children's bed-time is frequently preceeded by a session of happy , family rough-housing . 
To outsiders , the Blacks seem to be an ordinary , happy family , and they are -- but with a difference . 
They know the value of being just that -- an ordinary , happy family . 
Family Service has helped hundreds of families in this area . 
Perhaps to some their work does not seem particularly vital . 
But to the families it serves , their help cannot be measured . 
Family Service could not open its doors to a single family without the financial support of the United Givers Fund . 
Anticipated heavy traffic along the Skyline Drive failed to materialize yesterday , park rangers said , and those who made the trip got a leisurely view of the fall colors through skies swept clear of haze . 
For crucial encounter One of the initial questions put to President Kennedy at his first news conference last January was about his attitude toward a meeting with Premier Khrushchev . 
Mr. Kennedy replied : `` I'm hopeful that from more traditional exchanges we can perhaps find greater common ground '' . 
The President knew that a confrontation with Mr. Khrushchev sooner or later probably was inevitable and even desirable . 
But he was convinced that the realities of power -- military , economic and ideological -- were the decisive factors in the struggle with the Communists and that these could not be talked away at a heads of government meeting . 
He wanted to buy time to strengthen the U. S. and its allies and to define and begin to implement his foreign policy . 
Last Friday the White House announced : President Kennedy will meet with Soviet Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev in Vienna June 3 and 4 . 
The announcement came after a period of sharp deterioration in East-West relations . 
The heightened tension , in fact , had been a major factor in the President's change of view about the urgency of a meeting with the Soviet leader . 
He was not going to Vienna to negotiate -- the simultaneous announcements in Washington and Moscow last week stressed that no formal negotiations were planned . 
But Mr. Kennedy had become convinced that a personal confrontation with Mr. Khrushchev might be the only way to prevent catastrophe . 
That objective set the high stakes and drama of the Vienna meeting . 
Despite efforts by Washington last week to play down the significance of the meeting , it clearly was going to be one of the crucial encounters of the cold war . 
Road to Vienna The U. S. and Soviet heads of Government have met three times since Sir Winston Churchill in 1953 introduced a new word into international diplomacy with his call for a fresh approach to the problem of peace `` at the summit of the nations '' . 
The first time was in 1955 when a full-dress Big Four summit meeting produced the `` spirit of Geneva '' . 
The spirit served chiefly to lull the West while Moscow made inroads into the Middle East . 
In 1959 President Eisenhower and Premier Khrushchev held an informal session in the U. S. . 
That meeting produced the `` spirit of Camp David '' -- a spirit , it later turned out , that masked a basic misunderstanding about progress toward a Berlin settlement . 
On the third occasion -- another Big Four summit session at Paris a year ago -- there was no problem of an illusory `` spirit '' . 
Premier Khrushchev wrecked the conference at its initial session with a bitter denunciation of the U. S. for the U-2 incident . 
The episode tended to confirm the U. S. belief that propaganda , the hope of one-sided concessions , and the chance to split the Allies , rather than genuine negotiation , were the Soviet leader's real aims in summitry . 
Pre-inaugural position Thus when Premier Khrushchev intimated even before inauguration that he hoped for an early meeting with the new President , Mr. Kennedy was confronted with a delicate problem . 
Shortly before his nomination he had set forth his basic view about the problem of negotiations with the Soviet leader in these words : `` As long as Mr. Khrushchev is convinced that the balance of world power is shifting his way , no amount of either smiles or toughness , neither Camp David talks nor kitchen debates , can compel him to enter fruitful negotiations '' . 
The President had set for himself the task , which he believed vital , of awakening the U. S. and its allies to the hard and complex effort necessary to shift that balance . 
He did not want the effort weakened by any illusion that summit magic might make it unnecessary . 
He wanted time , too , to review the United States' global commitments and to test both the policies he had inherited and new ones he was formulating . 
Above all , he did not want to appear to be running hat in hand to Premier Khrushchev's doorstep . 
Attitude flexible At the same time the President took pains not to rule out an eventual meeting with the Soviet leader . 
Ideally , he knew , it should be preceded by concrete progress at lower levels . 
But Mr. Kennedy saw value even in an informal meeting , provided that undue hopes were not raised in connection with it . 
It would give him an opportunity to take the measure of his chief adversary in the cold war , to try to probe Mr. Khrushchev's intentions and to make clear his own views . 
Moreover , an eventual meeting was desirable if for no other reason than to satisfy world opinion that the U. S. was not inflexible and was sparing no effort to ease international tensions . 
Both elements -- the caution about a meeting , the willingness eventually to hold one -- were reflected in a letter from the President which Ambassador Llewellyn E. Thompson brought back to Russia late in February . 
The letter , dated Feb. 22 , was delivered to Premier Khrushchev in Novosibirsk , Siberia , on March 9 . 
It dealt mainly with a broad range of East-West issues . 
But it also briefly suggested the possibility of a meeting with Mr. Khrushchev before the end of the year if the international climate were favorable and schedules permitted . 
Developments over the next two months , however , caused the President to reconsider the question of the timing . 
There were intense discussions in the inner councils of the White House about the advisability of an early meeting , not because the international climate was improving , but precisely because it was deteriorating alarmingly . 
Deadlock on tests The President was especially concerned about the deadlock in the nuclear test ban negotiations at Geneva . 
The deadlock has been caused by the Russians' new demand for a three-man ( East , West and neutral ) directorate , and thus a veto , over the control machinery . 
In the U. S. , strong pressures have been building up for a resumption of tests on grounds that the Russians may be secretly testing . 
Mr. Kennedy was less troubled by that possibility than by the belief that a Geneva breakdown , or even continued stalemate , would mean an unchecked spread of nuclear weapons to other countries as well as a fatal blow to any hope for disarmament . 
There was reason to believe that Premier Khrushchev was also concerned about a possible spread of nuclear weapons , particularly to Communist China . 
The question arose as to whether a frank discussion of that danger with the Soviet leader had not become urgent . 
Moreover , Moscow appeared determined to apply the tripartite veto principle to the executive organs of all international bodies , including the U. N. Secretariat and the International Control Commission for Laos . 
Mr. Kennedy was convinced that insistence on the demand would make international agreements , or even negotiations , impossible . 
Developments in Cuba and Laos also suggested the advisability of an early summit meeting . 
Initially the White House reaction was that the bitter exchanges with Moscow over Cuba and the conflict in Laos had dampened prospects for a meeting . 
At the same time , there was increased reason for a quick meeting lest the Soviet leader , as a result of those episodes , come to a dangerously erroneous conclusion about the West's ability and determination to resist Communist pressure . 
In Cuba , the U. S. had blundered badly and created the impression of impotency against Communist penetration even on its own doorstep . 
In Laos , the picture was almost equally bad . 
U. S. willingness to accept a neutral Laos may have led Premier Khrushchev to believe that other areas could be `` neutralized '' on Soviet terms . 
Beyond that , Allied disagreement about military intervention in Laos -- despite warnings that they might do so -- allowed Moscow to carry out with impunity a series of military and diplomatic moves that greatly strengthened the pro-Communist forces . 
As a result , the West is in a poor bargaining position at the current Geneva negotiations on Laos , and South Vietnam and other nations in Southeast Asia are under increased pressure . 
In the light of those events , there appeared to be a real danger that Premier Khrushchev might overreach himself . 
Ambassador Thompson reported from Moscow that the Soviet leader's mood was cocky and aggressive . 
He has indicated that he plans new moves on Berlin before the year is out . 
The President and his advisers felt that the time might have come to warn Premier Khrushchev against a grave miscalculation in areas such as Berlin , Iran or Latin America from which there would be no turning back . 
It was in the midst of such White House deliberations that Premier Khrushchev on May 4 made new inquiries through the U. S. Embassy in Moscow about a meeting with the President in the near future . 
Mr. Kennedy told Moscow he would give his answer by May 20 after consultation with the Allies . 
The response from London , Paris and Bonn was favorable . 
Firm arrangements for the meeting in Vienna were worked out in a final exchange between Moscow and Washington last week . 
Apparently at the insistence of the U. S. , the simultaneous announcements issued in Washington and Moscow last Friday emphasized the `` informal '' nature of the meeting . 
The Washington announcement said : `` The President and Chairman Khrushchev understand that this meeting is not for the purpose of negotiating or reaching agreement on the major international problems that involve the interest of many other countries . 
The meeting will , however , afford a timely and convenient opportunity for the first personal contact between them and a general exchange of views on the major issues which affect the relationships between the two countries '' . 
The outlook The Vienna meeting will bring together a seasoned , 67-year-old veteran of the cold war who , in Mr. Kennedy's own words , is `` shrewd , tough , vigorous , well-informed and confident '' , and a 44-year-old President ( his birthday is May 29 ) with a demonstrated capacity for political battle but little experience in international diplomacy . 
The announcement last week of the forthcoming encounter produced strong reactions in the U. S. of both approval and disapproval . 
The approval did not arise from an expectation of far-reaching agreements at Vienna . 
The inclination was to accept the statement that there would be no formal negotiations . 
But those who were in favor of the meeting felt that a frank exchange between the two men and an opportunity to size one another up would prove salutary . 
Mr. Khrushchev is known to rely heavily on his instincts about his adversaries and to be a shrewd judge of men . 
The feeling was that he would sense an inner core of toughness and determination in the President and that plain talk by Mr. Kennedy would give him pause . 
Apart from the personal equation , another reason advanced in favor of the meeting was that too often in the past the U.S. appeared to have been dragged reluctantly to the summit . 
Premier Khrushchev has made propaganda capital out of that fact and in the end got his summit meeting anyway . 
This time the initiative came , in part at least , from Washington . 
Other allies consulted There was also the fact that by the time he meets Mr. Khrushchev , the President will have completed conversations with all the other principal Allied leaders . 
Thus he will be in a position to disabuse the Soviet leader of any notions he may have about grave Allied disunity . 
Finally , there was a wide area of agreement on the value of the President's making a final effort in the summit spotlight for a nuclear test accord . 
There is no single issue that has aroused stronger feelings throughout the world . 
If tests are to be resumed , the argument went , it is vital that the U. S. make plain that the onus belongs to the Soviet Union . 
Disapproval of the meeting was based largely on the belief that the timing could hardly be worse . 
After Cuba and Laos , it was argued , Mr. Khrushchev will interpret the President's consent to the meeting as further evidence of Western weakness -- perhaps even panic -- and is certain to try to exploit the advantage he now believes he holds . 
Moreover , the President is meeting the Soviet leader at a time when the Administration has still not decided on the scope of America's firm foreign policy commitments . 
The question was raised , for example , as to what attitude the President would take if Mr. Khrushchev proposes a broad neutral belt extending from Southeast Asia to the Middle East . 
There are , so my biologist friends tell me , mechanisms of adaptation and defense that are just too complete and too satisfactory . 
Mollusks are a case in point . 
The shell , which served the strain so well at a relatively early stage in the evolutionary scheme , tended to cancel out the possibility of future development . 
Though this may or may not be good biology , it does aptly illustrate the strength and the weakness of American Catholic higher education . 
There can be no doubt that the American Catholic accomplishment in the field of higher education is most impressive : our European brethren never cease to marvel at the number and the size of our colleges and universities . 
The deeper wonder is how this miracle was accomplished in decades , rather than in centuries and by immigrant minorities at that . 
By way of explanation we ourselves are prone to imagine that this achievement stems from the same American Catholic zeal and generosity which brought the parochial school system into existence . 
There is , however , one curious discrepancy in this broad and flattering picture . 
Viewing the American Catholic educational achievement in retrospect , we may indeed see it as a unified whole extending from grade school to university . 
But the simple truth is that higher education has never really been an official American Catholic project ; ; certainly not in the same sense that the establishment of a parochial school system has been a matter of official policy . 
Official encouragement is one thing , but the down-to-earth test is the allocation of diocesan and parochial funds . 
American Catholics have responded generously to bishops' and pastors' appeals for the support necessary to create parochial schools but they have not contributed in a similar fashion to the establishment of institutions of higher learning . 
They have not done so for the simple reason that such appeals have hardly ever been made . 
Diocesan authorities generally have not regarded this as their direct responsibility . 
All of this may be understandable enough : it is , however , in fact difficult to see how diocesan authorities could have acted otherwise . 
Yet for better or for worse , the truth of the matter is that most American Catholic colleges do not owe their existence to general Catholic support but rather to the initiative , resourcefulness and sacrifices of individual religious communities . 
Community esprit de corps has been the protective shell which has made the achievement possible . 
To understand the past history -- and the future potential -- of American Catholic higher education , it is necessary to appreciate the special character of the esprit de corps of the religious community . 
It is something more than the arithmetical sum of individual totals of piety and detachment . 
A religious community with a vital sense of mission achieves a degree of group orientation and group identification seldom found elsewhere . 
The fact that the group orientation and group identification are founded on supernatural principles and nourished by the well-springs of devotion simply give them a deeper and more satisfying dimension . 
The net result is a uniquely satisfying sense of comradeship , the kind of comradeship which sparks enthusiasm and blunts the cutting edge of sacrifice and hardship . 
American Catholic colleges and universities are , in a very real sense , the product of `` private enterprise '' -- the `` private enterprise '' of religious communities . 
Had it not been for such private enterprise , diocesan authorities might of course have been goaded into establishing institutions subsidized by diocesan funds and parish collections and staffed by religious as paid employees . 
There is however no point in speculating about such a possibility : the fact of the matter is that our institutions of higher learning owe their existence to a spirit not unlike that which produces the `` family business '' . 
This `` family-community '' spirit is the real explanation of the marvel of our achievement . 
It is this spirit which explains some of the anomalies of American Catholic higher education , in particular the wasteful duplication apparent in some areas . 
I think for example of three women's colleges with pitifully small enrollments , clustered within a few miles of a major Catholic university , which is also co-educational . 
This is not an isolated example ; ; this aspect of the total picture has been commented upon often enough . 
It would seem to represent esprit de corps run riot . 
Apart , however , from the question of wasteful duplication , there is another aspect of the `` family business '' spirit in American Catholic higher education which deserves closer scrutiny . 
For while the past needs of the Church in this country may have been adequately met by collegiate institutions , which in temper and tone closely resembled junior colleges and finishing schools , it would seem that today's need is for the college which more closely resembles the university in its `` pursuit of excellence '' . 
At the earlier `` pre-academic excellence '' stage of Catholic education , the operation could be conducted on an intra-mural community basis . 
But with today's demand for professional qualifications and specialized training , the need for `` outsiders '' becomes more pressing . 
The problem is not merely that more `` outside teachers '' are needed but that a different brand is called for . 
Commenting on the earlier stage , the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Association of University Professors ( in a recent report on the question of faculty participation in administrative decision-making ) noted that the term `` teacher-employee '' ( as opposed to , e.g. , `` maintenance employee '' ) was a not inapt description . 
Today however , the `` outsider '' is likely to have professional qualifications of the highest order ( otherwise the college would not be interested in hiring him ) and to be acclimatized to the democratic processes of the secular or state university . 
And while no one expects total democracy on the academic scene , the scholar will be particularly sensitive to a line between first and second class citizenship drawn on any basis other than that of academic rank or professional achievement . 
In the above mentioned report of the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Association of University Professors , the basic outlook of the new breed of lay faculty emerges very clearly in the very statement of the problem as the members see it : `` Even with the best of intentions he ( the President of the university ) is loath to delegate such authority and responsibility to a group the membership of which , considered ( as it must be by him ) in individual terms , is inhomogeneous , mortal and of extremely varying temperament , interests and capabilities . 
It is natural that he should turn for his major support to a select and dedicated few from the organization which actually owns the university and whose goals are , in their opinion , identified with its highest good and ( to use that oft-repeated phrase ) ' the attainment of excellence ' '' . 
The pattern here pictured is clearly not peculiar to Notre Dame : it is simply that the paradox involved in this kind of control of the institution by `` the organization which actually owns '' it , becomes more obvious where there is a larger and more distinguished `` outside '' faculty . 
It is particularly interesting that those who framed the report should refer to `` the organization which actually owns the university '' : this seems to show an awareness of the fact that there is more to the problem than the ordinary issue of clerical-lay tension . 
But in any case , one does not have to read very closely between the lines to realize that the situation is not regarded as a particularly happy one . 
`` Outside '' faculty members want to be considered partners in the academic enterprise and not merely paid employees of a family business . 
There are two reasons why failure to come to grips with this demand could be fatal to the future of the Catholic university . 
In the first place there is the obvious problem of recruiting high caliber personnel . 
Word spreads rapidly in the tightly knit academic profession , much given to attending meetings and conferences . 
Expressions of even low-key dissatisfaction by a Catholic college faculty member has the effect of confirming the already existing stereotype . 
In the academic world there is seldom anything so dramatic as a strike or a boycott : all that happens is that the better qualified teacher declines to gamble two or three years of his life on the chance that conditions at the Catholic institution will be as good as those elsewhere . 
To appreciate the nature of the gamble , it should be realized that while college teaching is almost a public symbol of security , that security does not come as quickly or as automatically as it does in an elementary school system or in the Civil Service . 
Much has been made of the fact that major Catholic institutions now guarantee firm tenure . 
This is a significant advance but its import should not be exaggerated . 
When a man invests a block of his years at a university without gaining the coveted promotion , not only is he faced with the problem of starting over but there is also a certain depreciation in the market value of his services . 
A man does not make that kind of gamble if he suspects that one or more of the limited number of tenure positions is being reserved for members of the `` family '' . 
Just as it is possible to exaggerate the drawing power of the new tenure practices , it is also possible to exaggerate the significance of the now relatively adequate salaries paid by major Catholic institutions . 
Adequate compensation is indispensable . 
Yet adequate compensation -- and particularly merely adequate compensation is no substitute for those intangibles which cause a man to sacrifice part of his earning potential by taking up college teaching in the first place . 
Broadly speaking the total Catholic atmosphere is such an intangible but the larger demand is for a sense of creative participation and mature responsibility in the total work of the university . 
Religious who derive their own sense of purpose through identification with the religious community rather than the academic community are prone to underestimate both the layman's reservoir of idealism and his need for this identification . 
There is no need here to spell out the conditions of creative teaching except to point out that , at the college level , the sense of community and of community responsibility is even more necessary than it is at other levels . 
The college teacher needs the stimulus of communication with other faculty members but he also needs to feel that such communication , even informal debates over the luncheon table , are a contribution to the total good of the institution . 
But this in turn means that decisions are not merely imposed from the top but that there be some actual mechanism of faculty participation . 
The second reason for being concerned with the dichotomy between faculty members who are part of the `` in-group '' that owns and operates the institution and those who are merely paid employees , is , therefore , the baneful effect on the caliber of the teaching itself . 
This is a problem that goes considerably beyond questions of salary and tenure . 
Yet though it may seem difficult to envision any definitive resolution of the problem of ownership and control , there are nevertheless certain suggestions which seem to be in order . 
The first is a negative warning : there is no point in the creation of faculty committees and advisory boards with high-sounding titles but no real authority . 
In the case of academic personnel the `` feeling '' of participation can hardly be `` faked '' . 
Competent teachers are well versed in the technique of leading students to pre-set conclusions without destroying the students' illusion that they are making their own decisions . 
Those who have served as faculty advisers are too familiar with the useful but artificial mechanisms of student government to be taken in by `` busy-work '' and ersatz decision making . 
In any case it is by no means clear that formally structured organs of participation are what is called for at all . 
In the Notre Dame report , reference was made to the fact that faculty members were reduced to `` luncheon-table communication '' . 
In itself there is nothing wrong with this form of `` participation '' : the only difficulty on the Catholic campus is that those faculty members who are in a position to implement policy , i.e. , members of the religious community which owns and administers the institution , have their own eating arrangements . 
Sen. John L. McClellan of Arkansas and Rep. David Martin of Nebraska are again beating the drums to place the unions under the anti-monopoly laws . 
Once more the fallacious equation is advanced to argue that since business is restricted under the anti-monopoly laws , there must be a corresponding restriction against labor unions : the law must treat everybody equally . 
Or , in the words of Anatole France , `` The law in its majestic equality must forbid the rich , as well as the poor , from begging in the streets and sleeping under bridges '' . 
The public atmosphere that has been generated which makes acceptance of this law a possibility stems from the disrepute into which the labor movement has fallen as a result of Mr. McClellan's hearings into corruption in labor-management relations and , later , into the jurisdictional squabbles that plagued industrial relations at the missile sites . 
The Senator was shocked by stoppages over allegedly trivial disputes that delayed our missile program . 
In addition , disclosures that missile workers were earning sums far in excess of what is paid for equivalent work elsewhere provoked his indignation on behalf of the American taxpayer who was footing the bill . 
It is now disclosed that the taxpayer not only pays for high wages , but he pays the employers' strike expenses when the latter undertakes to fight a strike . 
Business Week ( Aug. 9 , 1961 ) reports that the United Aircraft Company , against which the International Association of Machinists had undertaken a strike , decided to keep its plants operating . 
The company incurred some $10 million of expenses attributable to four factors : advertising to attract new employees , hiring and training them , extra overtime , and defective work performed by the new workers . 
The company has billed the United States Government for $7,500,000 of these expenses under the Defense Department regulation allowing costs of a type generally recognized as ordinary and necessary for the conduct of the contractor's business . 
Rep. Frank Kowalski of Connecticut has brought this problem to the attention of the Armed Services Committee . 
The committee remains unresponsive . 
Neither has Congressman Martin nor Senator McClellan been heard from on the matter ; ; they are preoccupied with ending labor abuses by extending the anti-monopoly laws to the unions . 
The recent publicity attending the successful federal prosecution of a conspiracy indictment against a number of electrical manufacturers has evoked a new respect for the anti-trust laws that is justified neither by their rationale nor by the results they have obtained . 
The anti-trust laws inform a business that it must compete , but along completely undefined lines ; ; it must play a game in which there never is a winner . 
The fact is that any business that wants to operate successfully cannot follow the law . 
Hypocrisy thus becomes the answer to a foolish public policy . 
Let us look at the heavy-electrical-goods industry in which General Electric , Westinghouse and a number of other manufacturers were recently convicted of engaging in a conspiracy to rig prices and allocate the market . 
The industry is so structured that price-setting by a multi-product company will vary with the way overhead charges are allocated -- whether marginal or average pricing is applied . 
The problem becomes even more complex where an enterprise is engaged in the manufacture of a wide variety of other goods in addition to the heavy electrical equipment . 
Accounting procedures can be varied to provide a rationale for almost any price . 
Naturally , enterprises of the size of General Electric are in a position to structure their prices in such a way that the relatively small competitors can be forced to the wall in a very short time . 
Should these giants really flex their competitive muscles , they would become the only survivors in the industry . 
Uncle Sam would then accuse them of creating a monopoly by `` unfair competition '' . 
But if they show self-restraint , they don't get the orders . 
Under the circumstances , the only protection for the relatively small manufacturers is to engage in exactly the kind of conspiracy with the giants for which the latter were convicted . 
Engaging in such a conspiracy was an act of mercy by the giants . 
The paradox implicit in the whole affair is shown by the demand of the government , after the conviction , that General Electric sign a wide-open consent decree that it would not reduce prices so low as to compete seriously with its fellows . 
In other words , the anti-trust laws , designed to reduce prices to the consumer on Monday , Wednesday and Friday , become a tool to protect the marginal manufacturer on Tuesday , Thursday and Saturday . 
And which theory would govern the enforcers of the law on Sunday ? 
The question might be asked : `` Don't the managements of the heavy-electrical-goods manufacturers know these facts ? 
Why did they engage in a flood of mea culpas , throw a few scapegoats to the dogs and promise to be good boys thereafter , expressing their complete confidence in the laws '' ? 
The past usefulness of the anti-trust laws to management was explained by Thurman Arnold , in The Folklore of Capitalism , back in 1937 . 
He wrote : `` ( P. 211 ) the anti-trust laws were the answer of a society which unconsciously felt the need of great organizations , and at the same time had to deny them a place in the moral and logical ideology of the social structure . 
( P. 214 ) anti-trust laws became the greatest protection to uncontrolled business dictatorship . 
( P. 215 ) when corporate abuses were attacked , it was done on the theory that criminal penalties would be invoked rather than control . 
In this manner , every scheme for direct control broke to pieces on the great protective rock of the anti-trust laws . 
( Pp. 228-229 ) in any event , it is obvious that the anti-trust laws did not prevent the formation of some of the greatest financial empires the world has ever known , held together by some of the most fantastic ideas , all based on the fundamental notion that a corporation is an individual who can trade and exchange goods without control by the government '' . 
This escape from control has led to management's evaluating the risk of occasional irrational prosecution as worth while . 
A plea of nolo contendere , followed by a nominal fine , after all is a small price to pay for this untrammeled license . 
( The penalties handed out in the electrical case , which included jail sentences , were unprecedented in anti-trust prosecutions , perhaps because the conspirators had displayed unusual ineptness in their pricing activities . 
) If a substitute mechanism is needed for the control of a fictitious impersonal market , quite obviously some method must be devised for representing the public interest . 
A secret conspiracy of manufacturers is hardly such a vehicle . 
However , one can argue that no such control is necessary as long as one pretends that the anti-trust laws are effective and rational . 
Quite clearly the anti-trust laws are neither effective nor rational -- and yet the argument goes that they should be extended to the labor union . 
Those who favor placing trade unions under anti-trust laws imply that they are advocating a brand new reform . 
Before 1933 , individuals who opposed trade unions and collective bargaining said so in plain English . 
The acceptance of collective bargaining as a national policy in 1934 , implicit in the writing of Section 7A of the National Industrial Recovery Act , has made it impolitic to oppose collective bargaining in principle . 
The Wagner Act , the Taft-Hartley Act and the Landrum-Griffin Act all endorse the principle of collective bargaining . 
The basic purpose of an effective collective-bargaining system is the removal of wages from competition . 
If a union cannot perform this function , then collective bargaining is being palmed off by organizers as a gigantic fraud . 
The tortured reasoning that unions use to deny their ambition to exercise monopoly power over the supply and price of labor is one of the things that create a legal profession . 
The problem must be faced squarely . 
If laborers are merely commodities competing against each other in a market place like so many bags of wheat and corn ( unsupported , by the way , by any agricultural subsidy ) , then they may be pardoned for reacting with complete antagonism to a system that imposes such status upon them . 
Human labor was exactly that -- a commodity -- in eighteenth- and nineteenth-century America . 
As early as 1776 , Adam Smith wrote in The Wealth Of Nations : `` We have no acts of Parliament against combining to lower the price of work ; ; but many against combining to raise it '' . 
Eighteenth-century England , upon whose customs our common law was built , had outlawed unions as monopolies and conspiracies . 
In 1825 , the Boston house carpenters' strike for a ten-hour day was denounced by the organized employers , who declared : `` It is considered that all combinations by any classes of citizens intended to effect the value of labor tend to convert all its branches into monopolies '' . 
There were no pious hypocrisies then about being for collective bargaining , but against labor monopoly . 
The courts shared the opinion of the employers . 
In People vs. Fisher , Justice Savage of the New York Supreme Court declared : `` Without any officious and improper interference on the subject , the price of labor or the wages of mechanics will be regulated by the demand for the manufactured article and the value of that which is paid for it ; ; but the right does not exist to raise the wages of the mechanic by any forced and artificial means '' . 
Compare this statement of a nineteenth-century judge with how Congressman Martin , according to the Daily Labor Report of Sept. 19 , 1961 , defends the necessity of enacting anti-trust legislation in the field of labor `` if we wish to prevent monopolistic fixing of wages , production or prices and if we wish to preserve the freedom of the employer and his employees to contract on wages , hours and conditions of employment '' . 
Senator McClellan is proposing the application of anti-trust measures to unions in transportation . 
His bill , allegedly aimed at Hoffa , would amend the Sherman , Clayton and Norris-LaGuardia acts to authorize the issuance of federal injunctions in any transportation strike and would make it illegal for any union to act in concert with any other union -- even a sister local in the same international . 
Paradoxically , the same week in which Senator McClellan was attempting to extend the anti-trust act to labor in transportation , the Civil Aeronautics Board was assuring the airlines that if they met in concert to eliminate many costly features of air travel , the action would not be deemed a violation of the anti-trust act . 
Indeed , it is in the field of transportation that Congress has most frequently granted employers exemption from the anti-trust laws ; ; for example , the organization of steamship conferences to set freight rates and the encouragement of railroads to seek mergers . 
At the very moment that every attempt is being made to take management out from under the irrationality of anti-trust legislation , a drive is on to abolish collective bargaining under the guise of extending the anti-monopoly laws to unions who want no more than to continue to set wages in the same way that ship operators set freight rates . 
The passage of the Sherman Act was aimed at giant monopolies . 
It was most effective against trade unions . 
In the famous Danbury Hatters case , a suit was brought against the union by the Loewe Company for monopolistic practices , e.g. , trying to persuade consumers not to purchase the product of the struck manufacturer . 
The suit against the union was successful and many workers lost their homes to pay off the judgment . 
In 1914 , the Clayton Act attempted to take labor out from under the anti-trust legislation by stating that human labor was not to be considered a commodity . 
The law could not suspend economics . 
Labor remained a commodity -- but presumably a privileged one granted immunization from the anti-trust laws . 
The courts , by interpretation , emasculated the act . 
In 1922 , the United Mine Workers struck the Coronado Coal Company . 
The company sued under the anti-trust laws , alleging that the union's activity interfered with the movement of interstate commerce . 
( What other purpose could a striking union have but to interrupt the flow of commerce from the struck enterprise ? 
) The court first ruled that the strike constituted only an indirect interference with commerce . 
The nation the three-front war At a closed-door session on Capitol Hill last week , Secretary of State Christian Herter made his final report to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on U.S. affairs abroad . 
Afterward , Tennessee's Democratic Senator Albert Gore summed it up for newsmen . 
What Herter presented , said Gore , was `` not a very encouraging review '' . 
That was something of an understatement in a week when the underlying conflict between the West and Communism erupted on three fronts . 
While Communists were undermining United Nations efforts to rescue the Congo from chaos , two other Communist offensives stirred the Eisenhower Administration into emergency conferences and serious decisions . 
1 ) Cuba . 
Hours after a parade of his new Soviet tanks and artillery , Dictator Fidel Castro suddenly confronted the U.S. with a blunt and drastic demand : within 48 hours , the U.S. had to reduce its embassy and consulate staffs in Cuba to a total of eleven persons ( the embassy staff alone totaled 87 U.S. citizens , plus 120 Cuban employees ) . 
President Eisenhower held an 8:30 a.m. meeting with top military and foreign-policy advisers , decided to break off diplomatic relations immediately . 
`` There is a limit to what the United States in self-respect can endure '' , said the President . 
`` That limit has now been reached '' . 
Through Secretary Herter , Ike offered President-elect Kennedy an opportunity to associate his new Administration with the breakoff decision . 
Kennedy , through Secretary-designate of State Dean Rusk , declined . 
He thus kept his hands free for any action after Jan. 20 , although reaction to the break was generally favorable in the U.S. and Latin America ( see the hemisphere ) . 
2 ) Laos . 
After a White House huddle between the President and top lieutenants , the Defense Department reacted sharply to a cry from the pro-Western government of Laos that several battalions of Communist troops had invaded Laos from North Viet Nam . 
`` In view of the present situation in Laos '' , said the Pentagon's announcement , `` we are taking normal precautionary actions to increase the readiness of our forces in the Pacific '' . 
Cutting short a holiday at Hong Kong , the aircraft carriers Lexington and Bennington steamed off into the South China Sea , accompanied by a swarm of destroyers , plus troopships loaded with marines . 
On the U.S.'s island base of Okinawa , Task Force 116 , made up of Army , Navy , Marine and Air Force units , got braced to move southward on signal . 
But by week's end the Laotian cry of invasion was read as an exaggeration ( see foreign news ) , and the U.S. was agreeing with its cautious British and French allies that a neutralist -- rather than a pro-Western -- government might be best for Laos . 
French & Indians . 
There was a moral of sorts in the Laotian situation that said much about all other cold-war fronts . 
Political , economic and military experts were all agreed that chaotic , mountainous little Laos was the last place in the world to fight a war -- and they were probably right . 
`` It would be like fighting the French and Indian War all over again '' , said one military man . 
But why was Laos the new Southeast Asian battleground ? 
At Geneva in 1954 , to get the war in Indo-China settled , the British and French gave in to Russian and Communist Chinese demands and agreed to the setting up of a Communist state , North Viet Nam -- which then , predictably , became a base for Communist operations against neighboring South Viet Nam and Laos . 
The late Secretary of State John Foster Dulles considered the 1954 Geneva agreement a specimen of appeasement , saw that resolution would be needed to keep it from becoming a calamity for the West . 
He began the diplomatic discussions that resulted in the establishment of Aj . 
`` The important thing from now on '' , he said , `` is not to mourn the past but to seize the future opportunity to prevent the loss in northern Viet Nam from leading to the extension of Communism throughout Southeast Asia '' . 
Russian tanks and artillery parading through the streets of Havana , Russian intrigue in the Congo , and Russian arms drops in Laos ( using the same Ilyushin transports that were used to carry Communist agents to the Congo ) made it plain once more that the cold war was all of a piece in space and time . 
Soviet Premier Khrushchev sent New Year's hopes for peace to President-elect Kennedy , and got a cool acknowledgment in reply . 
Considering the state of the whole world , the cold war's three exposed fronts did not seem terribly ominous ; ; but , in Senator Gore's words , it was `` not a very encouraging '' situation that would confront John F. Kennedy on Inauguration Day . 
The Congress turmoil in the House As the 87th Congress began its sessions last week , liberal Democrats were ready for a finish fight to open the sluice gates controlled by the House Rules Committee and permit the free flow of liberal legislation to the floor . 
The liberal pressure bloc ( which coyly masquerades under the name Democratic Study Group ) had fought the committee before , and had always lost . 
This time , they were much better prepared and organized , and the political climate was favorable . 
They had the unspoken support of President-elect Kennedy , whose own legislative program was menaced by the Rules Committee bottleneck . 
And counting noses , they seemed to have the votes to work their will . 
Deadly deadlock . 
There were two possible methods of breaching the conservative barriers around the Rules Committee : 1 ) to pack it with additional liberals and break the conservative-liberal deadlock , or 2 ) to remove one of the conservatives -- namely Mississippi's 14-term William Meyers Colmer ( pronounced Calmer ) . 
Caucusing , the liberals decided to go after Colmer , which actually was the more drastic course , since seniority in the House is next to godliness . 
A dour , gangling man with a choppy gait , Colmer looks younger than his 70 years , has gradually swung from a moderate , internationalist position to that of a diehard conservative . 
He is generally and initially suspicious of any federal project , unless it happens to benefit his Gulf Coast constituents . 
He is , of course , a segregationist , but he says he has never made an `` anti-Negro '' speech . 
For 20 years he has enjoyed his power on the Rules Committee . 
There his vote , along with those of Chairman Howard Smith , the courtly Virginia judge , and the four Republican members , could and often did produce a 6-6 deadlock that blocked far-out , Democratic-sponsored welfare legislation ( a tactic often acceptable to the Rayburn-Johnson congressional leadership to avoid embarrassing votes ) . 
Equal treatment . 
There was sufficient pretext to demand Colmer's ouster : he had given his lukewarm support to the anti-Kennedy electors in Mississippi . 
Reprisals are not unheard of in such situations , but the recent tendency has been for the Congress to forgive its prodigal sons . 
In 1949 the Dixiecrats escaped unscathed after their 1948 rebellion against Harry Truman , and in 1957 , after Congressman Adam Clayton Powell campaigned for Dwight Eisenhower in 1956 , his fellow Democrats did not touch his committee assignments , although they did strip him temporarily of his patronage . 
( In the heat of the anti-Colmer drive last week , Judge Smith threatened reprisal against Powell . 
Said he : `` We will see whether whites and Negroes are treated the same around here '' . 
) But Speaker Sam Rayburn , after huddling in Palm Beach with President-elect Kennedy , decided that this year something had to be done about the Rules Committee -- and that he was the only man who could do anything effective . 
In a tense , closed-door session with Judge Smith , Rayburn attempted to work out a compromise : to add three new members to the Rules Committee ( two Democrats , including one Southerner , and one Republican ) . 
Smith flatly rejected the offer , and Mister Sam thereupon decided to join the rebels . 
The next morning he summoned a group of top Democrats to his private office and broke the news : he would lead the fight to oust Colmer , whom he is said to regard as `` an inferior man '' . 
News of Rayburn's commitment soon leaked out . 
When Missouri's Clarence Cannon got the word , he turned purple . 
`` Unconscionable '' ! 
He shouted , and rushed off to the Speaker's Room to object : `` A dangerous precedent '' ! 
Cannon , a powerful , conservative man , brought welcome support to the Smith-Colmer forces : as chairman of the Appropriations Committee , he holds over each member the dreadful threat of excluding this or that congressional district from federal pork-barrel projects . 
Sitting quietly on an equally big pork barrel was another Judge Smith ally , Georgia's Carl Vinson , chairman of the Armed Services Committee . 
Threat of war . 
As the battle raged in the cloakrooms and caucuses , it became clear that Judge Smith could lose . 
His highest count of supporters numbered 72 -- and he needed nearly twice that number to control the 260-member Democratic caucus . 
The liberals , smelling blood , were faced with the necessity of winning three big votes -- in the Democratic Committee on Committees , in the full party caucus , and on the floor of the House -- before they could oust Colmer . 
( One big question : If Colmer was to be purged , what should the House do about the other three senior Mississippians who supported the maverick electors ? 
) In all three arenas , they seemed certain of victory -- especially with Sam Rayburn applying his whiplash . 
But in the prospect of winning the battle loomed the specter of losing a costlier war . 
If the Southerners were sufficiently aroused , they could very well cut the Kennedy legislative program to ribbons from their vantage point of committee chairmanships , leaving Sam Rayburn leading a truncated , unworkable party . 
With that possibility in mind , Arkansas' Wilbur Mills deliberately delayed calling a meeting of the Committee on Committees , and coolheaded Democrats sought to bring Rayburn and Smith together again to work out some sort of face-saving compromise . 
`` Here are two old men , mad at each other and too proud to pick up the phone '' , said a House Democratic leader . 
`` One wants a little more power , and the other doesn't want to give up any '' . 
Battle in the senate The Senate launched the 87th Congress with its own version of an ancient liberal-conservative battle , but in contrast with the House's guerrilla war it seemed as pro forma as a Capitol guide's speech . 
Question at issue : How big a vote should be necessary to restrict Senate debate -- and thereby cut off legislation-delaying filibusters ? 
A wide-ranging , bipartisan force -- from Minnesota's Democratic Hubert Humphrey to Massachusetts' Republican Leverett Saltonstall -- was drawn up against a solid phalanx of Southern Democrats , who have traditionally used the filibuster to stop civil rights bills . 
New Mexico's Clint Anderson offered a resolution to change the Senate's notorious Rule 22 to allow three-fifths of the Senators present and voting to cut off debate , instead of the current hard-to-get two-thirds . 
Fair Dealer Humphrey upped the ante , asked cloture power for a mere majority of Senators . 
Georgia's Dick Russell objected politely , and the battle was joined . 
Privately , the liberals admitted that the Humphrey amendment had no chance of passage . 
Privately , they also admitted that their hopes for Clint Anderson's three-fifths modification depended on none other than Republican Richard Nixon . 
In 1957 Nixon delivered a significant opinion that a majority of Senators had the power to adopt new rules at the beginning of each new Congress , and that any rules laid down by previous Congresses were not binding . 
Armed with the Nixon opinion , the Senate liberals rounded up their slim majority and prepared to choke off debate on the filibuster battle this week . 
Hopefully , the perennial battle of Rule 22 then would be fought to a settlement once and for all . 
Republicans last act Since Election Day , Vice President Richard Nixon had virtually retired -- by his own wish -- from public view . 
But with the convening of the new Congress , he was the public man again , presiding over the Senate until John Kennedy's Inauguration . 
One day last week , Nixon faced a painful constitutional chore that required him to officiate at a joint session of Congress to hear the official tally of the Electoral College vote , and then to make `` sufficient declaration '' of the election of the man who defeated him in the tight 1960 presidential election . 
Nixon fulfilled his assignment with grace , then went beyond the required `` sufficient declaration '' . 
`` This is the first time in 100 years that a candidate for the presidency announced the result of an election in which he was defeated '' , he said . 
The Masters golf tournament proved last Monday what it can do to the strongest men and the staunchest nerves . 
Gary Player , the small , trim South African , was the eventual winner , but in all his 25 years he never spent a more harrowing afternoon as he waited for the victory to drop in his lap . 
Arnold Palmer , the defending champion , lost his title on the 72nd hole after a few minutes of misfortune that left even his fellow pros gaping in disbelief . 
`` Just when you think you have it licked , this golf course can get up and bite you '' , Player had said one afternoon midway through the tournament . 
And that is just what happened on the last few holes . 
The Augusta National Golf Club Course got up and bit both Player and Palmer . 
Player was the first to feel its teeth . 
After playing a splendid first nine holes in 34 -- two strokes under par -- on this fifth and final day of the tournament ( Sunday's fourth round had been washed out by a violent rainstorm when it was only half completed ) , Player's game rapidly fell to pieces . 
He bogeyed the 10th . 
After a journey through woods and stream he double-bogeyed the 13th . 
He bogeyed the 15th by missing a short putt and finally scrambled through the last three holes without further mishap for a 2-over-par 74 and a 72-hole total of 280 . 
As he signed his scorecard and walked off the course , Player was almost in tears . 
He could read on the nearby scoreboard that Palmer , by then playing the 15th hole , was leading him by a stroke . 
Palmer had started the round four strokes behind Player , and at one point in the afternoon had trailed by as many as six strokes . 
Now all he had to do was finish in even par to collect the trophy and the biggest single paycheck in golf . 
When Palmer hit a good straight drive up the fairway on the 72nd hole , he seemed to have the championship won . 
But the seven-iron shot he used to approach the green strayed into a bunker and lodged in a slight depression . 
In trying to hit it out with a sand wedge Palmer bounced the ball over the green , past spectators and down the slope toward a TV tower . 
Afterwards , Palmer told Charlie Coe , his last-round partner , that he simply played the hole too fast . 
He did seem hasty on his second and third shots , but then there was an agonizing wait of several minutes while Coe graciously putted out , giving Palmer a chance to recover his composure , which he had quite visibly lost . 
When the shaken Palmer finally did hit his fourth shot , he overshot the hole by 15 feet . 
Palmer was now putting merely for a tie , and Player , who was sitting beside his wife and watching it all on television in Tournament Chairman Clifford Roberts' clubhouse apartment , stared in amazement when Palmer missed the putt . 
Palmer's 281 for the four rounds at Augusta was a comfortable four strokes ahead of the next closest pro , but it was barely good enough for a second-place tie with Coe . 
The lean and leathery Oklahoma amateur , who has been playing topnotch tournament golf for many years , refused to let the Masters jitters overtake him and closed the tournament with his second straight 69 . 
End at seven Until late last Saturday afternoon Palmer had played seven consecutive rounds of golf at the Masters -- four last year and three this -- without ever being out of first place . 
As evening approached and Palmer finished his Saturday round with a disappointing one-over-par 73 , this remarkable record was still intact , thanks to his Thursday and Friday rounds of 68 and 69 . 
His three-round total of 210 was three strokes better than the next best score , a 213 by Bill Collins , the tall and deliberate Baltimorean who had been playing very well all winter long . 
But Palmer knew , as did everybody else at Augusta , that his streak was about to be broken . 
Half an hour after he finished his round , Player holed out at the 18th green with a 69 and a three-round total of 206 , four strokes ahead of Palmer . 
More than a streak had ended . 
Long after the erratic climate and the washed-out final round on Sunday have become meteorological footnotes , the 1961 Masters will be remembered as the scene of the mano a mano between Arnold Palmer and Gary Player . 
Unlike most such sports rivalries , it appeared to have developed almost spontaneously , although this was not exactly the case . 
When the winter tour began at Los Angeles last January there was no one in sight to challenge Palmer's towering prestige . 
As if to confirm his stature , he quickly won three of the first eight tournaments . 
Player won only one . 
But as the tour reached Pensacola a month ago , Player was leading Palmer in official winnings by a few hundred dollars , and the rest of the field was somewhere off in nowhere . 
On the final round at Pensacola , the luck of the draw paired Palmer and Player in the same threesome and , although it was far from obvious at the time , the gallery was treated to the first chapter of what promises to be one of the most exciting duels in sport for a long time to come . 
On that final Sunday at Pensacola neither Palmer nor Player was leading the tournament and , as it turned out , neither won it . 
But whichever of these two finished ahead of the other would be the undisputed financial leader of the tour . 
Player immediately proved he was not in the least awed by the dramatic proximity of Palmer . 
He outplayed Palmer all around the course and finished with a tremendous 65 to Palmer's 71 . 
Thereafter , until the Masters , Player gradually increased his lead over Palmer in winnings and added one more tournament victory at Miami . 
When they reached Augusta last week , together they had won five of the 13 tournaments to date . 
Instant rivalry On Thursday , the first day of the Masters , the contest between Palmer and Player developed instantly . 
It was a dismal , drizzly day but a good one on which to score over the Augusta National course . 
The usually skiddy greens were moist and soft , so the golfers were able to strike their approach shots boldly at the flag-stick and putt firmly toward the hole without too much worry about the consequences . 
Palmer's 4-under-par 68 got him off to an early lead , which he shared with Bob Rosburg . 
But Player was only one stroke back , with a 69 . 
Even so , it was still not clear to many in the enormous horde of spectators -- unquestionably the largest golf crowd ever -- that this tournament was to be , essentially , a match between Palmer and Player . 
A lot of people were still thinking about Jack Nicklaus , the spectacular young amateur , who had a 70 ; ; or Ken Venturi , who had a somewhat shaky 72 but was bound to do better ; ; or Rosburg , whose accurate short game and supersensitive putter can overcome so many of Augusta's treacheries ; ; or even old Byron Nelson , whose excellent 71 made one wonder if he had solved the geriatric aspects of golf . 
( On Thursday nobody except Charlie Coe was thinking of Charlie Coe . 
) On Friday , a day as cloudless and lovely as Thursday had been gray and ugly , the plot of the tournament came clearly into focus . 
Rosburg had started early in the day , and by the time Palmer and Player were on the course -- separated , as they were destined to be for the rest of the weekend , by about half an hour -- they could see on the numerous scoreboards spotted around the course that Rosburg , who ended with a 73 , was not having a good day . 
As Player began his second round in a twosome with amateur Bill Hyndman , his share of the gallery was not conspicuously large for a contender . 
Player began with a birdie on the first hole , added five straight pars and then another birdie at the 9th . 
On the back nine he began to acquire the tidal wave of a gallery that stayed with him the rest of the tournament . 
He birdied the 13th , the 15th and the 18th -- five birdies , one bogey and 12 pars for a 68 . 
Starting half an hour behind Player in company with British Open Champion Kel Nagle , Palmer birdied the 2nd , the 9th , the 13th and the 16th -- four birdies , one bogey and 13 pars for a 69 . 
The roar of Palmer's gallery as he sank a thrilling putt would roll out across the parklike landscape of Augusta , only to be answered moments later by the roar of Player's gallery for a similar triumph . 
At one point late in the day , when Palmer was lining up a 25-foot putt on the 16th , a thunderous cheer from the direction of the 18th green unmistakably announced that Player had birdied the final hole . 
Without so much as a grimace or a gesture to show that he had noticed ( although he later admitted that he had ) Palmer proceeded to sink his 25-footer , and his gallery sent its explosive vocalization rolling back along the intervening fairways in reply . 
The boldness of champions Anyone who now doubted that a personal duel was under way had only to watch how these exceptionally gifted golfers were playing this most difficult golf course . 
It is almost axiomatic that golfers who dominate the game of golf for any period of time attack their shots with a vehemence bordering on violence . 
The bad luck that can so often mar a well-played round of golf is simply overpowered and obliterated by the contemptuous boldness of these champions . 
Bob Jones played that way . 
Byron Nelson did , Hogan did . 
And last week at the Masters Palmer and Player did . 
As the third round of the tournament began on Saturday and the duel was resumed in earnest , it was Player's superior aggressiveness that carried him into the lead . 
This day Palmer had started first . 
As Player stepped on the first tee he knew that Palmer had birdied the first two holes and already was 2 under par for the day . 
Player immediately proceeded to follow suit . 
In fact , he went on to birdie the 6th and 8th as well , to go 4 under par for the first eight holes . 
But Player's real test came on the ninth hole , a downhill dogleg to the left measuring 420 yards . 
He hit a poor tee shot , pulling it off into the pine woods separating the 9th and first fairways . 
Having hit one of the trees , the ball came to rest not more than 160 yards out . 
Player then had the choice of punching the ball safely out of the woods to the 9th fairway and settling for a bogey 5 , or gambling . 
The latter involved hitting a full four-wood out to the first fairway and toward the clubhouse , hoping to slice it back to the deeply bunkered 9th green . 
`` I was hitting the ball well '' , Player said later , `` and I felt strong . 
When you're playing like that you'd better attack '' . 
Player attacked with his four-wood and hit a shot that few who saw it will ever forget . 
It struck the 9th green on the fly and stopped just off the edge . 
From there he chipped back and sank his putt for a par 4 . 
Palmer , meanwhile , had been having his troubles . 
They started on the 4th hole , a 220-yard par-3 . 
On this day the wind had switched 180-degrees from the northwest to the southeast , and nearly every shot on the course was different from the previous few days . 
At the 4th tee Palmer chose to hit a one-iron when a three-wood was the proper club , so he put the ball in a bunker in front of the green . 
His bogey 4 on this hole and subsequent bogeys at 5 and 7 along with a birdie at 8 brought him back to even par . 
Starting the second nine , Palmer was already four strokes behind Player and knew it . 
When Mickey Charles Mantle , the New York Yankees' man of muscle , drives a home run 450 feet into the bleachers , his feat touches upon the sublime . 
When Roger Eugene Maris , Mantle's muscular teammate , powers four home runs in a double-header , his performance merits awe . 
But when tiny , 145-pound Albert Gregory Pearson of the Los Angeles Angels , who once caught three straight fly balls in center field because , as a teammate explained , `` the other team thought no one was out there '' , hits seven home runs in four months ( three more than his total in 1958 , 1959 , and 1960 ) , his achievement borders on the ridiculous . 
This is Baseball 1961 . 
This is the year home runs ranged from the sublime to the ridiculous . 
It is the year when ( 1 ) amiable Jim Gentile of the Baltimore Orioles ambled to the plate in consecutive innings with the bases loaded and , in unprecedented style , delivered consecutive grand-slam home runs ; ; ( 2 ) Willie Mays of the San Francisco Giants borrowed a teammate's bat and became the ninth big leaguer to stroke four home runs in a game ; ; ( 3 ) the Milwaukee Braves tied a major-league record with fourteen home runs in three games and lost two of them ; ; and ( 4 ) catcher Johnny Blanchard of the New York Yankees matched a record with home runs in four successive times at bat , two of them as a pinch-hitter . 
Pitchers grumble about lively balls and lively bats , the shrinking strike zone , and the fact that the knock-down pitch is now illegal . 
Experts point to the thinning of pitching talent in the American League caused by expansion . 
Whatever the reasons , not in 30 years has a single season produced such thunderous assaults upon the bureau of baseball records , home-run division . 
Of all the records in peril , one stands apart , dramatic in its making , dramatic in its endurance , and now , doubly dramatic in its jeopardy . 
This , of course , is baseball's most remarkable mark : The 60 home runs hit in 1927 by the incorrigible epicure , the incredible athlete , George Herman ( Babe ) Ruth of the Yankees . 
Since 1927 , fewer than a dozen men have made serious runs at Babe Ruth's record and each , in turn , has been thwarted . 
What ultimately frustrated every challenger was Ruth's amazing September surge . 
In the final month of the 1927 season , he hit seventeen home runs , a closing spurt never matched . 
Double threat : Always , in the abortive attacks upon Ruth's record , one man alone -- a Jimmy Foxx ( 58 in 1932 ) or a Hank Greenberg ( 58 in 1938 ) or a Hack Wilson ( 56 in 1930 ) -- made the bid . 
But now , for the first time since Lou Gehrig ( with 47 home runs ) spurred Ruth on in 1927 , two men playing for the same team have zeroed in on 60 . 
Their names are Mantle and Maris , their team is the Yankees , and their threat is real . 
After 108 games in 1927 , Ruth had 35 home runs . 
After 108 games in 1961 , Mickey Mantle has 43 , Roger Maris 41 . 
Extend Mantle's and Maris's present paces over the full 1961 schedule of 162 games , and , mathematically , each will hit more than 60 home runs . 
This is the great edge the two Yankees have going for them . 
To better Ruth's mark , neither needs a spectacular September flourish . 
All Mantle needs is eight more home runs in August and ten in September , and he will establish a new record . 
In Ruth's day -- and until this year -- the schedule was 154 games . 
Baseball commissioner Ford Frick has ruled that Ruth's record will remain official unless it is broken in 154 games . 
) `` Even on the basis of 154 games , this is the ideal situation '' , insists Hank Greenberg , now vice-president of the Chicago White Sox . 
`` It has to be easier with two of them . 
How can you walk Maris to get to Mantle '' ? 
Roommates : Neither Mantle nor Maris , understandably , will predict 60 home runs for himself . 
Although both concede they would like to hit 60 , they stick primarily to the baseball player's standard quote : `` The important thing is to win the pennant '' . 
But one thing is for certain : There is no dissension between Mantle , the American League's Most Valuable Player in 1956 and 1957 , and Maris , the MVP in 1960 . 
Each enjoys seeing the other hit home runs ( `` I hope Roger hits 80 '' , Mantle says ) , and each enjoys even more seeing himself hit home runs ( `` and I hope I hit 81 '' ) . 
The sluggers get along so well in fact , that with their families at home for the summer ( Mantle's in Dallas , Maris's in Kansas City ) , they are rooming together . 
Mantle , Maris , and Bob Cerv , a utility outfielder , share an apartment in Jamaica , Long Island , not far from New York International Airport . 
The three pay $251 a month for four rooms ( kitchen , dining room , living room , and bedroom ) , with air-conditioning and new modern furniture . 
Mantle and Cerv use the twin beds in the bedroom ; ; Maris sleeps on a green studio couch in the living room . 
They divide up the household chores : Cerv does most of the cooking ( breakfast and sandwich snacks , with dinner out ) , Mantle supplies the transportation ( a white 1961 Oldsmobile convertible ) , and Maris drives the 25-minute course from the apartment house to Yankee Stadium . 
Mantle , Maris , and Cerv probably share one major-league record already : Among them , they have fifteen children -- eight for Cerv , four for Mantle , and three for Maris . 
As roommates , teammates , and home-run mates , Mantle , 29 , who broke in with the Yankees ten years ago , and Maris , 26 , who came to the Yankees from Kansas City two years ago , have strikingly similar backgrounds . 
Both were scholastic stars in football , basketball , and baseball ( Mantle in Commerce , Okla. , Maris in Fargo , N.D. ) ; ; as halfbacks , both came close to playing football at the University of Oklahoma ( `` Sometimes in the minors '' , Maris recalls , `` I wished I had gone to Oklahoma '' ) . 
To an extent , the two even look alike . 
Both have blue eyes and short blond hair . 
Both are 6 feet tall and weigh between 195 and 200 pounds , but Mantle , incredibly muscular ( he has a 17-1/2-inch neck ) , looks bigger . 
With their huge backs and overdeveloped shoulders , both must have their clothes made to order . 
Maris purchases $100 suits from Simpson's in New York . 
Mantle , more concerned with dress , buys his suits four at a time at Neiman-Marcus in Dallas and pays as much as $250 each . 
Light reading : Neither Mantle nor Maris need fear being classified an intellectual , but lately Mantle has shown unusual devotion to an intellectual opus , Henry Miller's `` Tropic of Cancer '' . 
Mantle so appreciated Miller's delicate literary style that he broadened teammates' minds by reading sensitive passages aloud during road trips . 
Mantle is not normally given to public speaking -- or , for that matter , to private speaking . 
`` What do you and Mickey talk about at home '' ? 
A reporter asked Maris recently . 
`` To tell you the truth '' , Maris said , `` Mickey don't talk much '' . 
This is no surprising trait for a ballplayer . 
What is surprising and pleasant is that Mantle and Maris , under constant pressure from writers and photographers , are trying to be cooperative . 
Of the two , Mantle is by nature the less outgoing , Maris the more outspoken . 
But last week , when a reporter was standing near Mantle's locker , Mickey walked up and volunteered an anecdote . 
`` See that kid '' ? 
He said , pointing to a dark-haired 11-year-old boy . 
`` That's ( Yogi ) Berra's . 
I'll never forget one time I struck out three times , dropped a fly ball , and we lost the game . 
I came back , sitting by my locker , feeling real low , and the kid walks over to me , looks up , and says : ' You stunk ' '' . 
Maris , in talking to reporters , tries to answer all questions candidly and fully , but on rare occasions , he shuns newsmen . 
`` When I've made a dumb play '' , he says , `` I don't want to talk to anyone . 
I'm angry '' . 
By his own confession , Maris is an angry young man . 
Benched at Tulsa in 1955 , he told manager Dutch Meyer : `` I can't play for you . 
Send me where I can play '' . 
( Meyer sent him to Reading , Pa. . 
) Benched at Indianapolis in 1956 , he told manager Kerby Farrell : `` I'm not learning anything on the bench . 
Play me '' . 
( Farrell did -- and Maris led the team to victory in the Little World Series . 
) `` That's the way I am '' , he says . 
`` I tell people what I think . 
If you're a good ballplayer , you've got to get mad . 
Give me a team of nine angry men and I'll give you a team of nine gentlemen and we'll beat you nine out of ten times '' . 
Idols' idols : One good indication of the two men's personalities is the way they reacted to meeting their own heroes . 
Maris's was Ted Williams . 
`` When I was a kid '' , Maris told a sportswriter last week , `` I used to follow Williams every day in the box score , just to see whether he got a hit or not '' . 
`` When you came up to the majors , did you seek out Williams for advice '' ? 
`` Are you kidding '' ? 
Said Maris . 
`` You're afraid to talk to a guy you idolize '' . 
Mantle's hero was Joe DiMaggio . 
`` When Mickey went to the Yankees '' , says Mark Freeman , an ex-Yankee pitcher who sells mutual funds in Denver , `` DiMaggio still was playing and every day Mickey would go by his locker , just aching for some word of encouragement from this great man , this hero of his . 
But DiMaggio never said a word . 
It crushed Mickey . 
He told me he vowed right then that if he ever got to be a star , this never would be said of him '' . 
Mantle has kept the vow . 
Among all the Yankees , he is the veteran most friendly to rookies . 
Neither Mantle nor Maris is totally devoted to baseball above all else . 
If laying ties on a railroad track , which he once did for $1 an hour , paid more than playing right field for the Yankees , Maris would lay ties on a railroad track . 
If working in a zinc mine , which he once did for 87-1/2 cents an hour , paid more than playing center field for the Yankees , Mantle would work in a zinc mine . 
But since railroading and mining are not the highest paid arts , Mantle and Maris concentrate on baseball . 
They try to play baseball the best they can . 
Each is a complete ballplayer . 
Mantle , beyond any question , can do more things well . 
( `` One of the reasons they get along fine '' , says a sportswriter who is friendly with the two men , `` is that both realize Mantle is head-and-shoulders above Maris '' . 
) Hitting , Mantle has an immediate advantage because he bats both left-handed and right-handed , Maris only left-handed . 
They both possess near classic stances , dug in firmly , arms high , set for fierce swings . 
Mantle is considerably better hitting for average ( , fourth in the league , to for Maris so far this year ) . 
Both are good bunters : Maris once beat out eighteen of nineteen in the minor leagues ; ; Mantle is a master at dragging a bunt toward first base . 
Both have brilliant speed : Mantle was timed from home plate ( batting left-handed ) to first base in 3.1 seconds , faster than any other major leaguer ; ; Maris ran the 100-yard dash in ten seconds in high school and once won a race against Luis Aparicio , the swift , base-stealing shortstop of the White Sox . 
Both are good , daring fielders : Mantle covers more ground ; ; Maris's throwing arm is stronger . 
Yet with all their skills , the appeal of Mantle and Maris in 1961 comes down to one basic : The home run . 
With this ultimate weapon , the two Yankees may have saved baseball from its dullest season . 
( American League expansion created , inevitably , weaker teams . 
Only two teams in each league ( the Yankees and Detroit , the Dodgers and Cincinnati ) are battling for first place . 
Appropriately , the emphasis on the home run , at a peak this year , came into being at baseball's lowest moment . 
In 1920 , as the startling news that the 1919 White Sox had conspired to lose the World Series leaked out , fans grew disillusioned and disinterested in baseball . 
Something was needed to revive interest ; ; the something was the home run . 
Into Washington on President-elect John F. Kennedy's Convair , the Caroline , winged Actor-Crooner Frank Sinatra and his close Hollywood pal , Cinemactor Peter Lawford , Jack Kennedy's brother-in-law . 
Also included in the entourage : a dog in a black sweater , Frankie and Peter had an urgent mission : to stage a mammoth Inauguration Eve entertainment gala in the capital's National Guard Armory . 
Frankie was fairly glutted with ideas , as he had hinted upon his arrival : `` It's really tremendous when you think Ella Fitzgerald is coming from Australia . 
I could talk to you for three hours and still not be able to give you all of our plans '' ! 
As the plans were laid , some several thousand fat cats were to be ensconced in the armory's $100 seats and in 68 ringside boxes priced at $10,000 each . 
The biggest single act would doubtless be staged by Frankie himself : his Inaugural wardrobe had been designed by Hollywood Couturier Don Loper , who regularly makes up ladies' ensembles . 
Soon after Loper leaked the news that Frankie had ordered `` two of everything '' just `` in case he spills anything '' , Frankie got so mad at the chic designer that he vowed he would not wear a stitch of Loper clothing . 
A year after he was catapulted over nine officers senior to him and made commandant of the Marine Corps , General David M. Shoup delivered a peppery annual report in the form of a `` happy , warless New Year '' greeting to his Pentagon staff . 
Said Leatherneck Shoup : `` A year ago I took the grips of the plow in my hands . 
After pushing an accumulation of vines and weeds from the moldboard , I lifted the lines from the dust and found hitched to that plow the finest team I ever held a rein on . 
Little geeing and hawing have been necessary '' . 
But Shoup also gave the Corps a tilling in spots . 
Speaking of `` pride '' , he deplored the noncommissioned officer `` whose uniform looks like it belonged to someone who retired in 1940 ; ; the officer with the yellow socks or the bay window . 
A few of these people are still around '' . 
Old and new briefly crossed paths in the U.S. Senate , then went their respective ways . 
At a reception for new members of Congress , Oregon Democrat Maurine Neuberger , taking the Senate seat held by her husband Richard until his death last March , got a brotherly buss from Democratic Elder Statesman Adlai Stevenson , U.S. Ambassador-designate to the U.N. . 
Meanwhile , after 24 years in the Senate , Rhode Island's durable Democrat Theodore Francis Greene -- having walked , swum and cerebrated himself to the hearty age of 93 -- left that august body ( voluntarily , because he could surely have been re-elected had he chosen to run again last November ) , as the oldest man ever to serve in the Senate . 
The most famous undergraduate of South Philadelphia High School is a current bobby-sox idol , Dreamboat Cacophonist Fabian ( real name : Fabian Forte ) , 17 , and last week it developed that he will remain an undergraduate for a while . 
The principal of the school announced that -- despite the help of private tutors in Hollywood and Philadelphia -- Fabian is a 10-o'clock scholar in English and mathematics . 
Lacking his needed credits in those subjects , Fabian will not graduate with his old classmates next week . 
South Philadelphia High's principal added that the current delay was caused by the `` pressure '' of a movie that the toneless lad was making . 
To Decathlon Man Rafer Johnson ( Time cover , Aug. 29 ) , whose gold medal in last summer's Olympic Games was won as much on gumption as talent , went the A.A.U.'s James E. Sullivan Memorial Trophy as the outstanding U.S. amateur athlete of 1960 . 
As the world's top sportsman -- pro or amateur -- Sports Illustrated tapped golf's confident Arnold Palmer ( Time cover , May 2 ) , who staged two cliffhanging rallies to win both the Masters and U.S. Open crowns , went on to win a record $80,738 for the year . 
Tooling through Sydney on his way to race in the New Zealand Grand Prix , Britain's balding Ace Driver Stirling Moss , 31 , all but smothered himself in his own exhaust of self-crimination . 
`` I'm a slob '' , he announced . 
`` My taste is gaudy . 
I'm useless for anything but racing cars . 
I'm ruddy lazy , and I'm getting on in years . 
It gets so frustrating , but then again I don't know what I could do if I gave up racing '' . 
Has Moss no stirling virtues ? 
`` I appreciate beauty '' . 
One of Nikita Khrushchev's most enthusiastic eulogizers , the U.S.S.R.'s daily Izvestia , enterprisingly interviewed Red-prone Comedian Charlie Chaplin at his Swiss villa , where he has been in self-exile since 1952 . 
Chaplin , 71 , who met K. when the Soviet boss visited England in 1956 , confided that he hopes to visit Russia some time this summer because `` I have marveled at your grandiose experiment and I believe in your future '' . 
Then Charlie spooned out some quick impressions of the Nikita he had glimpsed : `` I was captivated by his humor , frankness and good nature and by his kind , strong and somewhat sly face '' . 
G. David Thompson is one of those names known to the stewards of transatlantic jetliners and to doormen in Europe's best hotels , but he is somewhat of an enigma to most people in his own home town of Pittsburgh . 
There the name vaguely connotes new-rich wealth , a reputation for eccentricity , and an ardor for collecting art . 
Last week , in the German city of Dusseldorf , G. David Thompson was making headlines that could well give Pittsburgh pause . 
On display were 343 first-class paintings and sculptures from his fabled collection -- and every single one of them was up for sale . 
Like Philadelphia's late Dr. Albert C. Barnes who kept his own great collection closed to the general public ( Time , Jan. 2 ) , Thompson , at 61 , is something of a legend in his own lifetime . 
He made his fortune during World War 2 , when he took over a number of dying steel plants and kept them alive until the boom . 
Even before he hit big money , he had begun buying modern paintings . 
He gave the impression of never having read a word about art , but there was no doubt that he had an eye for the best . 
He was able to smell a bargain -- and a masterpiece -- a continent away , and the Museum of Modern Art's Alfred Barr said of him : `` I have never mentioned a new artist that Thompson didn't know about '' . 
He might barge into a gallery , start haggling over prices without so much as a word of greeting . 
He could be lavishly generous with friends , cab drivers and bellboys , but with dealers he was tough . 
He bought up Cezannes , Braques , Matisses , Legers , a splendid Picasso series , more than 70 Giacometti sculptures . 
He gathered one of the biggest collections of Paul Klees in the world . 
All these he hung in his burglarproof home called Stone's Throw , outside Pittsburgh , and only people he liked and trusted ever got to see them . 
Two years ago Thompson offered his collection to the city . 
But he insisted that it be housed in a special museum . 
Pittsburgh turned him down , just as Pittsburgh society had been snubbing him for years . 
He went then to a 40-year-old Basel art dealer named Ernst Beyeler , with whom he had long been trading pictures . 
Last year Beyeler arranged to sell $1,500,000 worth of Klees to the state of North Rhine-Westphalia , which will house them in a museum that is yet to be built . 
Last week most of the other prizes , once offered to Pittsburgh , went on the block . 
At the opening of the Dusseldorf show , Thompson himself scarcely glanced at the treasures that he was seeing together for the last time . 
In fact he seemed delighted to get rid of them . 
Some observers speculated that this might be his revenge on his home town . 
Thompson himself said : `` I want to enjoy once more the pleasure of bare walls waiting for new pictures '' . 
Break in Georgia The University of Georgia has long claimed that it does not discriminate against any applicant on the basis of race or color . 
But in all its 175 years , not a single Negro student has entered its classrooms . 
Last week Federal District Judge William A. Bootle ordered the university to admit immediately a `` qualified '' Negro boy and girl . 
Their entry will crack the total segregation of all public education , from kindergarten through graduate school , in Georgia -- and in Alabama , Mississippi and South Carolina as well . 
For 18 months , Hamilton Holmes , 19 , and Charlayne Hunter , 18 , had tried to get into the university . 
They graduated together from Atlanta's Turner High School , where Valedictorian Holmes was first in the class and Charlayne third . 
The university rejected them on a variety of pretexts , but was careful never to mention the color of their skins . 
Holmes went to Atlanta's Morehouse ( Negro ) College , where he is a B student and star halfback . 
Charlayne studied journalism at Detroit's Wayne State University . 
Last fall , after they took their hopes for entering Georgia to court , Judge Bootle ordered them to apply again . 
Charlayne was `` tentatively '' admitted for next fall , after state investigators questioned her white roommate at Wayne State . 
But Holmes was rejected again `` on the basis of his record and interview '' . 
The evidence in court was testimony about the interview , which for Holmes lasted an hour , although at least one white student at Georgia got through this ritual by a simple phone conversation . 
Holmes was asked if he had ever visited a house of prostitution , or a `` beatnik parlor or teahouse '' . 
No , said he , but officials still called him `` evasive '' . 
They also said he lied in saying that he had never been `` arrested '' . 
Their reason : Holmes once paid a $20 speeding fine , had his license suspended . 
Negro lawyers dug into the records of 300 white students , found that many were hardly interviewed at all -- and few had academic records as good as Hamilton Holmes . 
The real reason for his rejection , they argued , is the fact that Georgia law automatically cuts off funds for any desegregated school . 
Judge Bootle's decision : `` The two plaintiffs are qualified for admission to said university and would already have been admitted had it not been for their race and color '' . 
The state will appeal -- but few think it will actually try to close the university . 
`` Surprised and pleased '' , Students Holmes and Hunter may enter the University of Georgia this week . 
Catch for Chicago When the University of Chicago's Chancellor Lawrence A. Kimpton submitted his resignation last March , a mighty talent hunt gripped the Midway . 
Out went letters to 60,000 old grads , asking for suggestions . 
Such academic statesmen as James B. Conant were consulted . 
Two committees pondered 375 possible Kimpton successors , including Adlai Stevenson , Richard Nixon , and Harvard's Dean McGeorge Bundy . 
The debate led to a decision that Chicago needed neither a big name nor an experienced academic administrator , but rather , as Trustee Chairman Glen A. Lloyd put it , `` a top scholar in his own right '' -- a bright light to lure other top scholars to Chicago . 
Last week Chicago happily found its top scholar in Caltech's acting dean of the faculty : dynamic Geneticist George Wells Beadle , 57 , who shared the 1958 Nobel Prize in medicine and physiology for discovering how genes affect heredity by controlling cell chemistry ( Time , Cover , July 14 , 1958 ) . 
It fell to Chancellor Kimpton , now a Standard Oil ( Indiana ) executive , to spend his nine-year reign tidying up Chicago after the 21-year typhoon of Idealist Robert Maynard Hutchins . 
He threw out some of Hutchins' more wildly experimental courses , raised sagging undergraduate enrollment to 2,100 , nearly doubled endowment to $139.3 million . 
But though Kimpton put Chicago in what he felt was working order , some old grads feel that it still needs the kind of lively teachers who filled it in the heady Hutchins era . 
At Caltech , Geneticist Beadle has stuck close to his research as head of the school's famous biology division since 1946 . 
But he has shown a sixth-sense ability to spot , recruit and excite able researchers , and has developed unexpected talents in fund raising and speech-making . 
Beadle is even that rare scientist who takes an interest in money matters ; ; he avidly reads the Wall Street Journal , and took delight in driving a $250 model A Ford for 22 years , then selling it for $300 . 
A philosopher may point out that the troubles of the Congo began with the old Adam and consequently will never end . 
But a historian might put his finger on a specific man and date , and hold out the hope that the troubles will sometime pass away . 
The man was King Leopold 2 , of the Belgians , who in 1885 concluded that he had better grab a colony while the grabbing was still good . 
By force , he took under his protection , or stole , 900,000 square miles of wilderness in Central Africa . 
This is an area nearly as large as Western Europe ; ; and it was filled then as now by quarreling tribes with no political or historical unity . 
Its boundaries had nothing to do with geography or ethnic groupings ; ; they were determined by the points at which Leopold's explorers and gunmen got tired of walking . 
The population of the Congo is 13.5 million , divided into at least seven major `` culture clusters '' and innumerable tribes speaking 400 separate dialects . 
The religions of the people include Christianity , Mohammedanism , paganism , ancestor worship and animism . 
The climate ranges from the steamily equatorial to the temperate . 
The hospitals contain patients trampled by elephants or run over by sports cars . 
To make one nation out of these disparities would be a problem large enough in any case ; ; it has been made far more difficult by what the Belgians have done , or failed to do , in the Congo since 1885 . 
At first the Belgian royal family administered the Congo as its own private property . 
But by 1908 its record of brutality had touched the national conscience . 
The Belgian government itself took over administration , commencing a program of paternalism unmatched in the history of colonialism . 
One definition of paternalism is `` The principle or practice , on the part of a government , of managing the affairs of a country in the manner of a father dealing with his children '' . 
The honor of the Belgians in this matter is not to be questioned -- only their judgment . 
Ordinarily a father permits his children to grow up in due time -- but when the colony received independence in 1960 the Congolese child , if one imagines him to have been born in 1908 , was 52 and had until then been treated as an infant . 
The Belgians were interested primarily in the economic development of the Congo , which is rich in copper , tin , cobalt , manganese , zinc , and uranium , and cotton and palm oil . 
The colony was administered from Brussels , with neither the Congolese nor the resident Belgians having any vote . 
The beneficiaries of this administration were a number of huge cartels in which both individuals and the Belgian government itself held stock . 
In Inside Africa , John Gunther describes one of these , the Societe Generale , as `` the kind of colossus that might be envisaged if , let us say , the House of Morgan , Anaconda Copper , the Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York , the Pennsylvania Railroad , and various companies producing agricultural products were lumped together , with the United States government as a heavy partner '' . 
Had they been truly ruthless , the Belgians might have exploited the Congolese without compassion . 
But they were not . 
They provided a social security system which covered all their African employes ; ; their program of mass medical care was doubtless the best on the continent ; ; they put much effort into public housing . 
They also instituted a ration system under which all employers in the Congo were required to furnish their employes with clothing and adequate food . 
But instead of delivering the ration -- either in actual commodities or in cash -- at intervals of perhaps two weeks or a month , the Belgians felt obliged to dole it out more often . 
Would not the children , if they received all their food on the first day of the month , eat it up immediately , and later go hungry ? 
The Belgians also placed great emphasis on education . 
During the 1950s there were as many as 25,000 schools in the Congo . 
But almost all the schools were primary . 
The average Congolese can do little more than puzzle out the meaning of `` la chatte '' and `` le chien '' and write his name . 
Some schools were technical -- the Belgians needed carpenters and mechanics to help exploit the land , and trained many . 
But they did not believe in widespread secondary education , much less in college . 
It was their conviction that the people should be `` brought up together '' , a grade at a time , until in some indefinite future some might be ready to tackle history , economics and political science . 
Indeed , the Belgians discouraged higher education , fearing the creation of a native intellectual elite which might cause unrest . 
When the Congo received its independence in 1960 there were , among its 13.5 million people , exactly 14 university graduates . 
Why did the Belgians grant independence to a colony so manifestly unprepared to accept it ? 
In one large oversimplification , it might be said that the Belgians felt , far too late , the gale of nationalism sweeping Africa . 
They lacked time to prepare the Congo , as the British and French had prepared their colonies . 
The Congolese were clamoring for their independence , even though most were unsure what it meant ; ; and in Brussels , street crowds shouted , `` Pas une goutte de sang ! 
'' ( Not one drop of blood ! 
) . 
The Belgians would not fight for the privilege of being the detested pedagogue ; ; rather than teach where teaching was not wanted , they would wash their hands of the mess . 
It is hard to blame them for this . 
Yet there were other motivations and actions which the Belgians took after independence for which history may not find them guiltless . 
As the time for independence approached there were in the Congo no fewer than 120 political parties , or approximately eight for each university graduate . 
There were four principal ones . 
First , there were those Congolese ( among them Joseph Kasavubu ) who favored splitting the country into small independent states , Balkanizing it . 
Second , there were those ( Moise Tshombe ) who favored near-Balkanization , a loose federalism having a central government of limited authority , with much power residing in the states . 
Third , there were those ( notably Patrice Lumumba ) who favored a unified Congo with a very strong central government . 
And fourth , there were moderates who were in no hurry for independence and wished to wait until the Congo grew up . 
However , the positions of all parties and leaders were constantly shifting . 
A final factor which contributed greatly to the fragmentation of the Congo , immediately after independence , was the provincial structure that had been established by the Belgians for convenience in administration . 
They had divided the Congo into six provinces -- Leopoldville , Kasai , Kivu , Katanga , Equator and Eastern -- unfortunately with little regard for ethnic groupings . 
Thus some provinces contained tribes which detested each other , and to them independence meant an opportunity for war . 
The Belgian Congo was granted its independence with what seemed a workable Western-style form of government : there were to be a president and a premier , and a bicameral legislature elected by universal suffrage in the provinces . 
Well-wishers around the world hoped that the Congo would quickly assume a respectable position in the society of nations . 
If internal frictions arose , they could be handled by the 25,000-man Congolese army , the Force Publique , which had been trained and was still officered by white Belgians . 
The president , Joseph Kasavubu , seemed an able administrator and the premier , Patrice Lumumba , a reasonable man . 
Twenty-four hours after independence the wild tribesmen commenced fighting each other . 
Presently the well-armed members of the Force Publique -- many of them drawn from savage and even cannibalistic tribes , erupted in mutiny , rioting , raping and looting . 
Terror engulfed the thousands of Belgian civilians who had remained in the country . 
The Belgian government decided to act , and on July 10 dispatched paratroops to the Congo . 
On July 11 the head of the mineral-rich province of Katanga , Moise Tshombe , announced that his province had seceded from the country . 
Confusion became chaos ; ; each succeeding day brought new acts of violence . 
Lumumba and Kasavubu blamed it all on the military intervention by the Belgians , and appealed to the United Nations to send troops to oust them . 
On July 14 the Security Council -- with France and Great Britain abstaining -- voted the resolution which drew the U.N. into the Congo . 
Vague in wording , it called for withdrawal of Belgian troops and authorized the Secretary-General `` to take the necessary steps to provide the ( Congolese ) Government with such military assistance as may be necessary , until , through the efforts of the Congolese Government with the technical assistance of the United Nations , the national security forces may be able , in the opinion of the Government , to meet fully their tasks . 
'' Secretary-General Hammarskjold decided that it would be preferable if the U.N. troops sent into the Congo were to come from African , or at least nonwhite , nations -- certainly not from the U.S. , Russia , Great Britain or France . 
He quickly called on Ghana , Tunisia , Morocco , Guinea and Mali , which dispatched troops within hours . 
Ultimately the U.N. army in the Congo reached a top strength of 19,000 , including about 5,000 from India and a few soldiers from Eire and Sweden , who were the only whites . 
It took the U.N. three months to bring a modest form of order to the Congo . 
The Belgians were reluctant to withdraw their troops and often obstructed U.N. efforts . 
The wildly erratic nature of Patrice Lumumba caused constant problems -- he frequently announced that he wanted the U.N. to get out of the Congo along with the Belgians , and appealed to Russia for help . 
( However , there is little evidence that the late Lumumba was a Communist . 
Before appealing to the U.N. or to Russia , he first appealed to the U.S. for military help , and was rejected . 
) Lumumba further complicated the U.N.'s mission by initiating small `` wars '' with the secessionist province of Katanga and with South Kasai which , under Albert Kalonji , wanted to secede as well . 
Meanwhile Russia took every opportunity to meddle in the Congo , sending Lumumba equipment for his `` wars '' , dispatching `` technicians '' and even threatening , on occasion , to intervene openly . 
But by the end of the three-month period , in October 1960 , something approaching calm settled on the Congo . 
President Kasavubu became exasperated with Lumumba and fired him . 
Lumumba fired Kasavubu . 
Control of the government -- such control as there was and such government as there was -- passed into the hands of Joseph Mobutu , chief of staff of the Congolese army . 
Mobutu promptly flung out the Russians , who have not since played any significant part on the local scene , although they have redoubled their obstructionist efforts at U.N. headquarters in New York . 
The Belgians -- at least officially -- departed from the Congo as well , withdrawing all of their uniformed troops . 
But they left behind them large numbers of officers , variously called `` volunteers '' or `` mercenaries '' , who now staff the army of Moise Tshombe in Katanga , the seceded province which , according to Tshombe , holds 65% of the mineral wealth of the entire country . 
From October 1960 to February 1961 , the U.N. forces in the Congo took little action . 
There was no directive for it -- the Security Council's resolution had not mentioned political matters , and in any case the United Nations by the terms of its charter may not interfere in the political affairs of any nation , whether to unify it , federalize it or Balkanize it . 
During the five-month lull , civil war smoldered and flickered throughout the Congo . 
In February the murder of Patrice Lumumba , who had been kidnaped into Katanga and executed on order of Tshombe , again stirred the U.N. to action . 
On Feb. 21 the council passed another resolution urging the taking of `` all appropriate measures to prevent the occurrence of civil war in the Congo , including the use of force , if necessary , in the last resort '' . 
Although the resolution might have been far more specific , it was considerably tougher than the earlier one . 
It also urged that the U.N. eject , and prevent the return of , all Belgian and other foreign military and political advisers ; ; ordered an investigation of Lumumba's death ; ; urged the reconvention of the Congolese Parliament and the reorganization of the army . 
The presidency : talking and listening Though President John F. Kennedy was primarily concerned with the crucial problems of Berlin and disarmament adviser McCloy's unexpected report from Khrushchev , his new enthusiasm and reliance on personal diplomacy involved him in other key problems of U.S. foreign policy last week . 
High up on the President's priority list was the thorny question of Bizerte . 
On this issue , the President received a detailed report from his U.N. Ambassador Adlai Stevenson , who had just returned from Paris , and Mr. Kennedy asked Stevenson to search for a face-saving way -- for both Paris and Tunis -- out of the imbroglio . 
Ideally , the President would like the French to agree on a `` status quo ante '' on Bizerte , and accept a new timetable for withdrawing their forces from the Mediterranean base . 
To continue their important conversations about the Tunisian issue and the whole range of other problems , Mr. Kennedy invited Stevenson to Cape Cod for the weekend . 
The President also discussed the Bizerte deadlock with the No. 2 man in the Tunisian Government , Defense Minister Bahi Ladgham , who flew to Washington last week to seek U.S. support . 
The conversation apparently convinced Mr. Kennedy that the positions of France and Tunisia were not irreconcilable . 
Through Ladgham , Mr. Kennedy sent a message along those lines to Tunisian President Habib Bourguiba ; ; and one U.S. official said : `` The key question now is which side picks up the phone first '' . 
On the Latin American front , the President held talks with Secretary of the Treasury Douglas Dillon before sending him to Uruguay and the Inter-American Economic and Social Council ( which the President himself had originally hoped to attend ) . 
Main purpose of the meeting : To discuss President Kennedy's Alliance for Progress . 
And that was not all . 
In conferences with Nationalist China's dapper , diminutive Vice President Chen Cheng , Mr. Kennedy assured Chiang Kai-shek's emissary that the U.S. is as firmly opposed as ever to the admission of Red China to the United Nations . 
Chen was equally adamant in his opposition to the admission of Outer Mongolia ; ; however the President , who would like to woo the former Chinese province away from both Peking and Moscow , would promise Chen nothing more than an abstention by the U.S. if Outer Mongolia's admission comes to a vote . 
The President also conferred with emissaries from Guatemala and Nepal who are seeking more foreign aid . 
To Africa , he sent his most trusted adviser , his brother , Attorney General Robert Kennedy , on a good-will mission to the Ivory Coast . 
All week long the President clearly was playing a larger personal role in foreign affairs ; ; in effect , he was practicing what he preached in his Berlin message two weeks ago when he declared : `` We shall always be prepared to discuss international problems with any and all nations that are willing to talk , and listen , with reason '' . 
Crime : ' skyjacked ' From International Airport in Los Angeles to International Airport in Houston , as the great four-jet Boeing 707 flies , is a routine five hours and 25 minutes , including stopovers at Phoenix , El Paso , and San Antonio . 
When Continental Airlines night-coach Flight 54 took off at 11:30 one night last week , there was no reason to think it would take any longer . 
The plane put down on schedule at 1:35 a.m. in Phoenix . 
Thirty-one minutes later , when it took off for El Paso , hardly anyone of the crew of six or the 65 other passengers paid any attention to the man and teen-age boy who had come aboard . 
At 3:57 a.m. , with the plane about twenty minutes out of El Paso , passenger Robert Berry , a San Antonio advertising man , glanced up and saw the man and boy , accompanied by a stewardess , walking up the aisle toward the cockpit . 
`` The man was bent over with his hand on his stomach '' , Berry said . 
`` I figured he was sick '' . 
John Salvador , a farmer from Palm Desert , Calif. , was sitting up front and could see through the door as the trio entered the cockpit . 
`` The kid had a automatic , like they issue in the Army '' , he said . 
`` The other fellow had a '' . 
Salvador saw the youth hold his against the head of stewardess Lois Carnegey ; ; the man put his at the head of Capt. Byron D. Rickards . 
To Rickards , a 52-year-old veteran 30 years in the air , it was an old story : His plane was being hijacked in mid-flight again much as it had happened in 1930 , when Peruvian rebels made him land a Ford tri-motor at Arequipa . 
But last week's pirates , like the Cuban-American who recently hijacked an Eastern Airlines Electra ( Newsweek , Aug. 7 ) , wanted to go to Havana . 
Stalling : `` Tell your company there are four of us here with guns '' , the elder man told Rickards . 
The pilot radioed El Paso International Airport with just that message . 
But , he told the `` skyjackers '' , the 707 didn't carry enough fuel to reach Havana ; ; they would have to refuel at El Paso . 
Most passengers didn't know what had happened until they got on the ground . 
Jerry McCauley of Sacramento , Calif. , one of some twenty Air Force recruits on board , awoke from a nap in confusion . 
`` The old man came from the front of the plane and said he wanted four volunteers to go to Cuba '' , McCauley said , `` and like a nut I raised my hand . 
I thought he was the Air Force recruiter '' . 
What the man wanted was four persons to volunteer as hostages , along with the crew . 
They chose four : Jack Casey , who works for Continental Airlines in Houston ; ; Fred Mullen from Mercer Island , Wash. ; ; Pfc. Truman Cleveland of St. Augustine . 
Fla. , and Leonard Gilman , a former college boxer and veteran of the U.S. Immigration Service Border Patrol . 
Everybody else was allowed to file off the plane after it touched down at El Paso at 4:18 a.m. . 
They found a large welcoming group -- El Paso policemen , Border Patrol , sheriff's deputies , and FBI men , who surged around the plane with rifles and submachine guns . 
Other FBI men , talking with the pilot from the tower , conspired with him to delay the proposed flight to Havana . 
The ground crew , which ordinarily fuels a 707 in twenty minutes , took fully three hours . 
Still more time was consumed while the pilot , at the radioed suggestion of Continental president Robert Six , tried to persuade the armed pair to swap the Boeing jet for a propeller-driven Douglas Aj . 
Actually , the officers on the ground had no intention of letting the hijackers get away with any kind of an airplane ; ; they had orders to that effect straight from President Kennedy , who thought at first , as did most others , that it was four followers of Cuba's Fidel Castro who had taken over the 707 . 
Mr. Kennedy had been informed early in the day of the attempt to steal the plane , kept in touch throughout by telephone . 
At one time , while still under the impression that he was dealing with a Cuban plot , the President talked about invoking a total embargo on trade with Cuba . 
As the morning wore on and a blazing West Texas sun wiped the shadows off the Franklin Mountains , police got close enough to the plane to pry into the baggage compartment . 
From the luggage , they learned that the two air pirates , far from being Cubans , were native Americans , subsequently identified as Leon Bearden , 50-year-old ex-convict from Coolidge , Ariz. , and his son , Cody , 16 , a high-school junior . 
Tension The heat and strain began to tell on the Beardens . 
The father , by accident or perhaps to show , as he said , `` we mean business '' , took the and fired a slug between the legs of Second Officer Norman Simmons . 
At 7:30 a.m. , more than three hours after landing , the Beardens gave an ultimatum : Take off or see the hostages killed . 
The tower cleared the plane for take-off at 8 a.m. , and Captain Rickards began taxiing toward the runway . 
Several police cars , loaded with armed officers , raced alongside , blazing away at the tires of the big jet . 
The slugs flattened ten tires and silenced one of the inboard engines ; ; the plane slowed to a halt . 
Ambulances , baggage trucks , and cars surrounded it . 
The day wore on . 
At 12:50 p.m. a ramp was rolled up to the plane . 
A few minutes later , FBI agent Francis Crosby , talking fast , eased up the ramp to the plane , unarmed . 
While Crosby distracted the Beardens , stewardesses Carnegey and Toni Besset dropped out of a rear door . 
So did hostages Casey , Cleveland , and Mullen . 
That left only the four crew members , Crosby , and Border Patrolman Gilman , all unarmed , with the Beardens . 
The elder Bearden had one pistol in his hand , the other in a hip pocket . 
Gilman started talking to him until he saw his chance . 
He caught officer Simmons' eye , nodded toward young Bearden , and -- `` I swung my right as hard as I could . 
Simmons and Crosby jumped the boy and it was all over '' . 
Frog-marched off the airplane at 1:48 p.m. , the Beardens were held in bail of $100,000 each on charges of kidnapping and transporting a stolen plane across state lines . 
( Bearden reportedly hoped to peddle the plane to Castro , and live high in Cuba . 
) Back home in Coolidge , Ariz. , his 36-year-old wife , Mary , said : `` I thought they were going to Phoenix to look for jobs '' . 
Congress : more muscle Taking precedence over all other legislation on Capitol Hill last week was the military strength of the nation . 
The Senate put other business aside as it moved with unaccustomed speed and unanimity to pass -- 85 to 0 -- the largest peacetime defense budget in U.S. history . 
With the money all but in hand , however , the Administration indicated that , instead of the 225,000 more men in uniform that President Kennedy had requested , the armed forces would be increased by only 160,000 . 
The `` hold-back '' , as Pentagon mutterers labeled it , apparently was a temporary expedient intended to insure that the army services are built up gradually and , thus , the new funds spent prudently . 
In all , the Senate signed a check for $46.7 billion , which not only included the extra $3.5 billion requested the week before by President Kennedy , but tacked on $754 million more than the President had asked for . 
( The Senate , on its own , decided to provide additional B-52 and other long-range bombers for the Strategic Air Command . 
) The House , which had passed its smaller appropriation before the President's urgent call for more , was expected to go along with the increased defense budget in short order . 
In other areas , Congressional action last week included : The Senate ( by voice vote ) and the House ( by 224-170 ) passed and sent to the White House the compromise farm bill which the President is expected to sign , not too unhappily . 
The Senate also voted $5.2 billion to finance the government's health , welfare , and labor activities . 
Debate on the all-important foreign-aid bill , with its controversial long-range proposals , had just begun on the Senate floor at the weekend . 
White House legislative aides were still confident the bill would pass intact . 
Food : stew a la Mulligatawny Most members of the U.S. Senate , because they are human , like to eat as high on the hog as they can . 
But , because they are politicians , they like to talk as poor-mouth as the lowliest voter . 
As a result , ever since 1851 when the Senate restaurant opened in the new wing of the Capitol Building , the senators have never ceased to grumble about the food -- even while they opposed every move that might improve it . 
Over the years , enlivened chiefly by disputes about the relative merits of Maine and Idaho potatoes , the menu has pursued its drab all-American course . 
Individual senators , with an eye to the voters back home , occasionally introduced smelts from Michigan , soft-shell crabs from Maryland , oysters from Washington , grapefruit from Florida . 
But plain old bean soup , served daily since the turn of the century ( at the insistence of the late Sen. Fred Dubois of Idaho ) , made clear to the citizenry that the Senate's stomach was in the right place . 
In a daring stroke , the Senate ventured forth last week into the world of haute cuisine and hired a $10,000-per-year French-born maitre d'hotel . 
Holders of toll-road bonds are finding improvements in monthly reports on operation of the turnpikes . 
Long-term trend of traffic on these roads seems clearly upward . 
Higher toll rates also are helping boost revenues . 
Result is a better prospect for a full payoff by bonds that once were regarded as highly speculative . 
Things are looking up these days for many of the State turnpikes on which investors depend for income from their toll-road bonds . 
Traffic on nearly all the turnpikes has been growing . 
That added traffic means rising streams of dimes and quarters at toll gates . 
As a result of the new outlook for turnpikes , investors who bought toll-road bonds when these securities ranked as outright speculations are now finding new hope for their investments . 
Another result is that buyers are tending to bid up the prices of these tax-exempt bonds . 
Other tax-exempt bonds of State and local governments hit a price peak on February 21 , according to Standard & Poor's average . 
On balance , prices of those bonds have slipped a bit since then . 
However , in the same three-month period , toll-road bonds , as a group , have bucked this trend . 
On these bonds , price rises since February 21 easily outnumber price declines . 
Tax-free returns . 
Investors , however , still see an element of more-than-ordinary risk in the toll-road bonds . 
You find the evidence of that in the chart on this page . 
Many of the toll-road bonds still are selling at prices that offer the prospect of an annual yield of 4 per cent , or very close to that . 
And this is true in the case of some turnpikes on which revenues have risen close to , or beyond , the point at which the roads start to pay all operating costs plus annual interest on the bonds . 
That 4 per cent yield is well below the return to be had on good corporation bonds . 
It's not much more , in fact , than the return that is offered on U. S. Treasury bonds . 
For investors whose income is taxed at high rates , though , a tax-free yield of 4 per cent is high . 
It is the equivalent of 8 per cent for an unmarried investor with more than $16,000 of income to be taxed , or for a married couple with more than $32,000 of taxed income . 
Swelling traffic . 
A new report on the earnings records of toll roads in the most recent 12-month period -- ending in February or March -- shows what is happening . 
The report is based on a survey by Blyth & Company , investment bankers . 
Nearly all the turnpikes show gains in net revenues during the period . 
And there is the bright note : The gains were achieved in the face of temporary traffic lags late in 1960 and early in 1961 as a result of business recession . 
Many of the roads also were hit by an unusually severe winter . 
Indication : The long-term trend of turnpike traffic is upward . 
Look , for example , at the Ohio Turnpike . 
Traffic on that road slumped sharply in January and February , as compared with those same months in 1960 . 
Then March brought an 18 per cent rise in net revenues -- after operating costs . 
As a result , the road's net revenues in the 12 months ending March 31 were 186 per cent of the annual interest payments on the turnpike bonds . 
That was up from 173 per cent in the preceding 12 months . 
That same pattern of earnings shows up on the Massachusetts Turnpike . 
Operating revenues were off in the first three months of 1961 , but up for the 12 months ending in March . 
Costs were held down , despite a bitter winter . 
For the year , the road earned 133 per cent of its interest costs , against 121 per cent in the preceding period . 
The road's engineers look for further improvement when the turnpike is extended into Boston . 
Slow successes . 
Some turnpikes have not been in full operation long enough to prove what they can do . 
The 187-mile Illinois State Toll Highway , for example , was not opened over its entire length until December , 1958 . 
In the 12 months ended in February , 1960 , the highway earned enough to cover 64 per cent of its interest load -- with the remainder paid out of initial reserves . 
In the 12 months ended in February , 1961 , this highway earned 93 per cent of its interest . 
That improvement is continuing . 
In the first two months of 1961 , earnings of the Illinois highway available for interest payments were up 55 per cent from early 1960 . 
Success , for many turnpikes , has come hard . 
Traffic frequently has failed to measure up to engineers' rosy estimates . 
In these cases , the turnpike managements have had to turn to toll-rate increases , or to costly improvements such as extensions or better connections with other highways . 
Many rate increases already have been put into effect . 
Higher tolls are planned for July 1 , 1961 , on the Richmond-Petersburg , Va. , Turnpike , and proposals for increased tolls on the Texas Turnpike are under study . 
Easier access . 
Progress is being made , too , in improving motorists' access to many turnpikes . 
The Kansas Turnpike offers an illustration . 
Net earnings of that road rose from 62 per cent of interest requirements in calendar 1957 to 86 per cent in the 12 months ended Feb. 28 , 1961 . 
Further improvements in earnings of the Kansas Turnpike are expected late in 1961 , with the opening of a new bypass at Wichita , and still later when the turnpike gets downtown connections in both Kansas City , Kans. , and Kansas City , Mo. . 
Meanwhile , there appears to be enough money in the road's reserve fund to cover the interest deficiency for eight more years . 
For some roads , troubles . 
Investors studying the toll-road bonds for opportunities find that not all roads are nearing their goals . 
Traffic and revenues on the Chicago Skyway have been a great disappointment to planners and investors alike . 
If nothing is done , the prospect is that that road will be in default of interest in 1962 . 
West Virginia toll bonds have defaulted in interest for months , and , despite recent improvement in revenues , holders of the bonds are faced with more of the same . 
These , however , are exceptions . 
The typical picture at this time is one of steady improvement . 
It's going to take time for investors to learn how many of the toll-road bonds will pay out in full . 
Already , however , several of the turnpikes are earning enough to cover interest requirements by comfortable margins . 
Many others are attracting the traffic needed to push revenues up to the break-even point . 
A top American official , after a look at Europe's factories , thinks the U.S. is in a `` very serious situation '' competitively . 
Commerce Secretary Luther Hodges , accompanied by a member of our staff , on May 10 toured plants of two of Italy's biggest companies -- Fiat , the auto producer , and Olivetti , maker of typewriters and calculating machines . 
Our staff man cabled from Turin as follows -- `` Follow Secretary Hodges through the Fiat plant , and you learn this : `` One , modern equipment -- much of it supplied under the Marshall Plan -- enables Fiat to turn out 2,100 cars a day . 
About half of these are exported . 
`` Two , wage costs are a fraction of the U.S. costs . 
A skilled worker on the assembly line , for example , earns $37 a week . 
`` Three , labor troubles are infrequent . 
Fiat officials say they have had no strikes for more than six years . 
`` Said Secretary Hodges : ' It's a tough combination for the U.S. to face . 
`` Olivetti had a special interest for Hodges . 
Olivetti took over Underwood , the U.S. typewriter maker , in late 1959 . 
Within a year , without reducing wages , Underwood's production costs were cut one third , prices were slashed . 
The result has been that exports of Underwood products have doubled . 
`` The Olivetti plant near Turin has modern layout , modern machinery . 
The firm is design-conscious , sales-conscious , advertising-conscious . 
`` Hodges is trying to get more foreign business to go to the U.S. . 
The inflow of foreign capital would help the U.S. balance of payments . 
`` Hodges predicted : ' I think we will see more foreign firms coming to the U.S. . 
There are many places where we can use their vigor and new ideas ' '' . 
Foreign competition has become so severe in certain textiles that Washington is exploring new ways of handling competitive imports . 
The recently unveiled Kennedy moves to control the international textile market can be significant for American businessmen in many lines . 
Important aspects of the Kennedy textile plans are these : An international conference of the big textile-importing and textile-exporting countries will be called shortly by President Kennedy . 
Chief aims of the proposed conference are worth noting . 
The U.S. will try to get agreement among the industrialized countries to take more textile imports from the less-developed countries over the years . 
Point is that developing countries often build up a textile industry first , need encouragement to get on their feet . 
If they have trouble exporting , international bill for their support will grow larger than it otherwise would . 
Idea is to let these countries earn their way as much as possible . 
At the same time , another purpose of the conference will be to get certain low-wage countries to control textile exports -- especially dumping of specific products -- to high-wage textile-producing countries . 
Japan , since 1957 , has been `` voluntarily '' curbing exports of textiles to the U.S. . 
Hong Kong , India and Pakistan have been limiting exports of certain types of textiles to Britain for several years under the `` Lancashire Pact '' . 
None of these countries is happy with these arrangements . 
The Japanese want to increase exports to the U.S. While they have been curbing shipments , they have watched Hong Kong step in and capture an expanding share of the big U.S. market . 
Hong Kong interests loudly protest limiting their exports to Britain , while Spanish and Portuguese textiles pour into British market unrestrictedly . 
The Indians and Pakistanis are chafing under similar restrictions on the British market for similar reasons . 
The Kennedy hope is that , at the conference or through bilateral talks , the low-wage textile-producing countries in Asia and Europe will see that `` dumping '' practices cause friction all around and may result in import quotas . 
Gradual , controlled expansion of the world's textile trade is what President Kennedy wants . 
This may point the way toward international stabilization agreements in other products . 
It's an important clue to Washington thinking . 
Note , too , that the Kennedy textile plan looks toward modernization or shrinkage of the U.S. textile industry . 
`` Get competitive or get out '' . 
In veiled terms , that's what the Kennedy Administration is saying to the American textile industry . 
The Government will help in transferring companies and workers into new lines , where modernization doesn't seem feasible . 
Special depreciation on new textile machinery may be allowed . 
Government research will look into new products and methods . 
Import quotas aren't ruled out where the national interest is involved . 
But the Kennedy Administration doesn't favor import quotas . 
Rather , they are impressed with the British Government's success in forcing -- and helping -- the British textile industry to shrink and to change over to other products . 
What's happening in textiles can be handwriting on the wall for other lines having difficulty competing with imports from low-wage countries . 
Among the highest-paid workers in the world are U.S. coal miners . 
Yet U.S. coal is cheap enough to make foreign steelmakers' mouths water . 
Steel Company of Wales , a British steelmaker , wants to bring in Virginia coal , cut down on its takings of Welsh coal in order to be able to compete more effectively -- especially in foreign markets . 
Virginia coal , delivered by ship in Wales , will be about $2.80 a ton cheaper than Welsh coal delivered by rail from nearby mines . 
U.S. coal is cheap , despite high wages , because of widespread mechanization of mines , wide coal seams , attactive rates on ocean freight . 
Many of the coal seams in the nationalized British mines are twisting , narrow and very deep . 
Productivity of U.S. miners is twice that of the British . 
Welsh coal miners , Communist-led , are up in arms at the suggestion that the steel company bring in American coal . 
They threaten to strike . 
The British Government will have to decide whether to let U.S. coal in . 
The British coal industry is unprofitable , has large coal stocks it can't sell . 
Every library borrower , or at least those whose taste goes beyond the five-cent fiction rentals , knows what it is to hear the librarian say apologetically , `` I'm sorry , but we don't have that book . 
There wouldn't be much demand for it , I'm afraid '' . 
Behind this reply , and its many variations , is the ever-present budget problem all libraries must face , from the largest to the smallest . 
What to buy out of the year's grist of nearly 15,000 book titles ? 
What to buy for adult and child readers , for lovers of fiction and nonfiction , for a clientele whose wants are incredibly diversified , when your budget is pitifully small ? 
Most library budgets are hopelessly inadequate . 
A startlingly high percentage do not exceed $500 annually , which includes the librarian's salary , and not even the New York Public has enough money to meet its needs -- this in the world's richest city . 
The plight of a small community library is proportionately worse . 
Confronted with this situation , most libraries either endure the severe limitations of their budgets and do what they can with what they have , or else depend on the bounty of patrons and local governments to supplement their annual funds . 
In some parts of the country , however , a co-operative movement has begun to grow , under the wing of state governments , whereby , with the financial help of the state , libraries share their book resources on a county-wide or regional basis . 
New York State has what is probably the most advanced of these co-operative systems , so well developed that it has become a model for others to follow . 
Because it is so large a state , with marked contrasts in population density , the organization of the New York co-operative offers a cross-section of how the plan works . 
At one extreme are the systems of upper New York State , where libraries in two or more counties combine to serve a large , sparsely populated area . 
At the other are organizations like the newly formed Nassau Library System , in a high-density area , with ample resources and a rapidly growing territory to serve . 
Both these types , and those in between , are in existence by reason of a legislative interest in libraries that began at Albany as early as 1950 , with the creation by the legislature of county library systems financed by county governments with matching funds from the state . 
It was a step in the right direction , but it took an additional act passed in 1958 to establish fully the thriving systems of today . 
Under this law annual grants are given to systems in substantial amounts . 
An earlier difficulty was overcome by making it clear that individual libraries in any area might join or not , as they saw fit . 
Some library boards are wary of the plan . 
A large , well-stocked library , surrounded in a county by smaller ones , may feel that the demands on its resources are likely to be too great . 
A small library may cherish its independence and established ways , and resist joining in a cooperative movement that sometimes seems radical to older members of the board . 
Within a system , however , the autonomy of each member library is preserved . 
The local community maintains responsibility for the financial support of its own library program , facilities , and services , but wider resources and additional services become available through membership in a system . 
All services are given without cost to members . 
So obvious are these advantages that nearly 95 per cent of the population of New York State now has access to a system , and enthusiastic librarians foresee the day , not too distant , when all the libraries in the state will belong to a co-op . 
To set up a co-operative library system , the law requires a central book collection of 100,000 nonfiction volumes as the nucleus , and the system is organized around it . 
The collection may be in an existing library , or it may be built up in a central collection . 
Each system develops differently , according to the area it serves , but the universal goal is to pool the resources of a given area for maximum efficiency . 
The basic state grant is thirty cents for each person served , and there is a further book incentive grant that provides an extra twenty cents up to fifty cents per capita , if a library spends a certain number of dollars . 
In Nassau County , for example , the heavily settled Long Island suburb of New York City , the system is credited by the state with serving one million persons , a figure that has doubled since 1950 . 
This system , by virtue of its variety and size , offers an inclusive view of the plan in operation . 
The Nassau system recognizes that its major task it to broaden reference service , what with the constant expansion of education and knowledge , and the pressure of population growth in a metropolitan area . 
The need is for reference works of a more specialized nature than individual libraries , adequate to satisfy everyday needs , could afford . 
Nassau is currently building a central collection of reference materials in its Hempstead headquarters , which will reach its goal of 100,000 volumes by 1965 . 
The major part of this collection is in the central headquarters building , and the remainder is divided among five libraries in the system designated as subject centers . 
Basic reference tools are the backbone of the collection , but there is also specialization in science and technology , an indicated weakness in local libraries . 
On microfilm , headquarters also has a file of the New York Times from its founding in 1851 to the present day , as well as bound volumes of important periodicals . 
The entire headquarters collection is available to the patrons of all members on interlibrary loans . 
Headquarters gets about 100 requests every day . 
It is connected by teletype with the State Library in Albany , which will supply any book to a system that the system itself cannot provide . 
The books are carried around by truck in canvas bags from headquarters to the other libraries . 
Each subject center library was chosen because of its demonstrated strength in a particular area , which headquarters could then build upon . 
East Meadow has philosophy , psychology , and religion ; ; Freeport houses social science , pure science , and language ; ; history , biography , and education are centered in Hempstead ; ; Levittown has applied science , business , and literature ; ; while Hewlett-Woodmere is the repository of art , music , and foreign languages . 
The reference coordinator at headquarters also serves as a consultant , and is available to work with the local librarian in helping to strengthen local reference service . 
This kind of cooperation is not wholly new , of course . 
Public libraries in Nassau County have been lending books to each other by mail for a quarter-century , but the system enables this process to operate on an organized and far more comprehensive basis . 
Local libraries find , too , that the new plan saves tax dollars because books can be bought through the system , and since the system buys in bulk it is able to obtain larger discounts than would be available to an individual library . 
The system passes on these savings to its members . 
Further money is saved through economy in bookkeeping and clerical detail as the result of central billing . 
Books are not the only resource of the system . 
Schools and community groups turn to the headquarters film library for documentary , art , and experimental films to show at libraries that sponsor local programs , and to organizations in member communities . 
The most recent film catalogue , available at each library , lists 110 titles presently in the collection , any of which may be borrowed without charge . 
This catalogue lists separately films suitable for children , young adults , or adults , although some classics cut across age groups , such as `` Nanook Of The North '' , `` The Emperor's Nightingale '' , and `` The Red Balloon '' . 
Workshops are conducted by the system's audio-visual consultant for the staffs of member libraries , teaching them the effective use of film as a library service . 
The system well understands that one of its primary responsibilities is to bring children and books together ; ; consequently an experienced children's librarian at headquarters conducts a guidance program designed to promote well-planned library activities , cooperating with the children's librarians in member libraries by means of individual conferences , workshops , and frequent visits . 
Headquarters has also set up a central juvenile book-review and book-selection center , to provide better methods of purchasing and selection . 
Sample copies of new books are on display at headquarters , where librarians may evaluate them by themselves or in workshop groups . 
Story hours , pre-school programs , activities with community agencies , and lists of recommended reading are all in the province of the children's consultant . 
Headquarters of the Nassau system is an increasingly busy place these days , threatening to expand beyond its boundaries . 
In addition to the interlibrary loan service and the children's program , headquarters has a public relations director who seeks to get wider grassroots support for quality library service in the county ; ; it prepares cooperative displays ( posters , booklists , brochures , and other promotional material ) for use in member libraries ; ; it maintains a central exhibit collection to share displays already created and used ; ; and it publishes Sum And Substance , a monthly newsletter , which reports the system's activities to the staffs and trustees of member libraries . 
The system itself is governed by a board of trustees , geographically representing its membership . 
In Nassau , as in other systems , the long-range objective is to bring the maximum service of libraries to bear on the schools , and on adult education in general . 
Librarians , a patient breed of men and women who have borne much with dedication , can begin to see results today . 
Library use is multiplying daily , and the bulk of the newcomers are those maligned Americans , the teen-agers . 
To them especially the librarians , with the help of co-ops , hope they will never have to say , `` I'm sorry , we don't have that book '' . 
Today , more than ever before , the survival of our free society depends upon the citizen who is both informed and concerned . 
The great advances made in recent years in Communist strength and in our own capacity to destroy require an educated citizenry in the Western world . 
The need for lifetime reading is apparent . 
Education must not be limited to our youth but must be a continuing process through our entire lives , for it is only through knowledge that we , as a nation , can cope with the dangers that threaten our society . 
The desire and ability to read are important aspects of our cultural life . 
We cannot consider ourselves educated if we do not read ; ; if we are not discriminating in our reading ; ; if we do not know how to use what we do read . 
We must not permit our society to become a slave to the scientific age , as might well happen without the cultural and spiritual restraint that comes from the development of the human mind through wisdom absorbed from the written word . 
A fundamental source of knowledge in the world today is the book found in our libraries . 
Although progress has been made in America's system of libraries it still falls short of what is required if we are to maintain the standards that are needed for an informed America . 
The problem grows in intensity each year as man's knowledge , and his capacity to translate such knowledge to the written word , continue to expand . 
The inadequacy of our library system will become critical unless we act vigorously to correct this condition . 
There are , for example , approximately 25,000,000 people in this country with no public library service and about 50,000,000 with inadequate service . 
In college libraries , 57 per cent of the total number of books are owned by 124 of 1,509 institutions surveyed last year by the U.S. Office of Education . 
And over 66 per cent of the elementary schools with 150 or more pupils do not have any library at all . 
In every aspect of service -- to the public , to children in schools , to colleges and universities -- the library of today is failing to render vitally needed services . 
Only public understanding and support can provide that service . 
This is one of the main reasons for National Library Week , April 16-22 , and for its theme : `` For a richer , fuller life , read '' ! 
Assembly session brought much good The General Assembly , which adjourns today , has performed in an atmosphere of crisis and struggle from the day it convened . 
It was faced immediately with a showdown on the schools , an issue which was met squarely in conjunction with the governor with a decision not to risk abandoning public education . 
There followed the historic appropriations and budget fight , in which the General Assembly decided to tackle executive powers . 
The final decision went to the executive but a way has been opened for strengthening budgeting procedures and to provide legislators information they need . 
Long-range planning of programs and ways to finance them have become musts if the state in the next few years is to avoid crisis-to-crisis government . 
This session , for instance , may have insured a financial crisis two years from now . 
In all the turmoil , some good legislation was passed . 
Some other good bills were lost in the shuffle and await future action . 
Certainly all can applaud passage of an auto title law , the school bills , the increase in teacher pensions , the ban on drag racing , acceptance by the state of responsibility for maintenance of state roads in municipalities at the same rate as outside city limits , repeal of the college age limit law and the road maintenance bond issue . 
No action has been taken , however , on such major problems as ending the fee system , penal reform , modification of the county unit system and in outright banning of fireworks sales . 
Only a token start was made in attacking the tax reappraisal question and its companion issue of attracting industry to the state . 
The legislature expended most of its time on the schools and appropriations questions . 
Fortunately it spared us from the usual spate of silly resolutions which in the past have made Georgia look like anything but `` the empire state of the South '' . 
We congratulate the entire membership on its record of good legislation . 
In the interim between now and next year , we trust the House and Senate will put their minds to studying Georgia's very real economic , fiscal and social problems and come up with answers without all the political heroics . 
League regularly stands on the side of right The League of Women Voters , 40 now and admitting it proudly , is inviting financial contributions in the windup of its fund drive . 
It's a good use of money . 
These women whose organization grew out of the old suffrage movement are dedicated to Thomas Jefferson's dictum that one must cherish the people's spirit but `` Keep alive their attention '' . 
`` If once they become inattentive to the public affairs '' , Jefferson said , `` you and I , and Congress and assemblies , judges and governors , shall all become wolves '' . 
Newspapermen and politicians especially are aware of the penetrating attention and expert analysis the league gives to public affairs . 
The league workers search out the pros and cons of the most complex issues and make them available to the public . 
The harder the choice , the more willing the league is to wade in . 
And the league takes a stand , with great regularity , on the side of right . 
Look to Coosa Valley for industrial progress Cities and counties interested in industrial development would do well in the months ahead to keep their eyes peeled toward the 13 northwest Georgia counties that are members of the Coosa Valley Area Planning and Development Commission . 
Coupling its own budget of $83,750 with a $30,000 state grant authorized by Gov. Vandiver , the group expects to sign a contract in March with Georgia Tech. . 
Then a full-time planning office will be established in Rome to work with a five-member Georgia Tech research staff for development of an area planning and industrial development program . 
The undertaking has abundant promise . 
It recognizes the fact that what helps one county helps its neighbors and that by banding together in an area-wide effort better results can be accomplished than through the go-it-alone approach . 
Rusk idea strengthens United States defense The Rusk belief in balanced defense , replacing the Dulles theory of massive retaliation , removes a grave danger that has existed . 
The danger lay not in believing that our own A-bombs would deter Russia's use of hers ; ; that theory was and is sound . 
The danger lay in the American delusion that nuclear deterrence was enough . 
By limiting American strength too much to nuclear strength , this country limited its ability to fight any kind of war besides a nuclear war . 
This strategy heightened the possibility that we would have a nuclear war . 
It also weakened our diplomatic stance , because Russia could easily guess we did not desire a nuclear war except in the ultimate extremity . 
This left the Soviets plenty of leeway to start low-grade brushfire aggressions with considerable impunity . 
By maintaining the nuclear deterrent , but gearing American military forces to fight conventional wars too , Secretary of State Rusk junks bluff and nuclear brinkmanship and builds more muscle and greater safety into our military position . 
DeKalb budget shows county is on beam DeKalb's budget for 1961 is a record one and carries with it the promise of no tax increase to make it balance . 
It includes a raise in the county minimum wage , creation of several new jobs at the executive level , financing of beefed-up industrial development efforts , and increased expenditures for essential services such as health and welfare , fire protection , sanitation and road maintenance . 
That such expansion can be obtained without a raise in taxes is due to growth of the tax digest and sound fiscal planning on the part of the board of commissioners , headed by Chairman Charles O. Emmerich who is demonstrating that the public trust he was given was well placed , and other county officials . 
Somewhere , somebody is bound to love us G. Mennen Williams is learning the difficulties of diplomacy rapidly . 
Touring Africa , the new U.S. Assistant Secretary of State observed `` Africa should be for the Africans '' and the British promptly denounced him . 
Then he arrived in Zanzibar and found Africans carrying signs saying `` American imperialists , go home '' . 
Chin up , Soapy . 
Power company backs confidence with dollars Confidence in the state's economic future is reflected in the Georgia Power Company's record construction budget for this year . 
The firm does a large amount of research and its forecasts have meaning . 
It is good to know that Georgia will continue to have sufficient electrical power not only to meet the demands of normal growth but to encourage a more rapid rate of industrialization . 
Georgia's mental health program received a badly needed boost from the General Assembly in the form of a $1,750,000 budget increase for the Milledgeville State Hospital . 
Actually it amounts to $1,250,000 above what the institution already is receiving , considering the additional half-million dollars Gov. Vandiver allocated last year from the state surplus . 
Either way it sounds like a sizable hunk of money and is . 
But exactly how far it will go toward improving conditions is another question because there is so much that needs doing . 
The practice of charging employes for meals whether they eat at the hospital or not should be abolished . 
The work week of attendants who are on duty 65 hours and more per week should be reduced . 
More attendants , nurses and doctors should be hired . 
Patients deserve more attention than they are getting . 
Even with the increase in funds for the next fiscal year , Georgia will be spending only around $3.15 per day per patient . 
The national average is more than $4 and that figure is considered by experts in the mental health field to be too low . 
Kansas , regarded as tops in the nation in its treatment of the mentally ill , spends $9 per day per patient . 
Georgia has made some reforms , true . 
The intensive treatment program is working well . 
But in so many other areas we still are dragging . 
Considering what is being done compared to what needs to be done , it behooves the hospital management to do some mighty careful planning toward making the best possible use of the increase granted . 
The boost is helpful but inadequate . 
The end of Trujillo Assassination , even of a tyrant , is repulsive to men of good conscience . 
Rafael Trujillo , the often blood-thirsty dictator of the Dominican Republic for 31 years , perhaps deserved his fate in an even-handed appraisal of history . 
But whether the murder of El Benefactor in Ciudad Trujillo means freedom for the people of the Caribbean fiefdom is a question that cannot now be answered . 
Trujillo knew a great deal about assassination . 
The responsibility for scores of deaths , including the abduction and murder of Jesus Maria Galindez , a professor at Columbia University in New York , has been laid at his door . 
He had been involved in countless schemes to do away with democratic leaders in neighboring countries such as President Romulo Betancourt of Venezuela . 
It was a sort of poetic justice that at the time of his own demise a new plot to overthrow the Venezuelan government , reportedly involving the use of Dominican arms by former Venezuelan Dictator Marcos Perez Jimenez , has been uncovered and quashed . 
The recent history of the Dominican Republic is an almost classical study of the way in which even a professedly benevolent dictatorship tends to become oppressive . 
Unquestionably Trujillo did some good things for his country : he improved public facilities such as roads and sanitation , attracted industry and investment and raised the standard of living notably . 
But the price was the silence of the grave for all criticism or opposition . 
El Benefactor's vanity grew with his personal wealth . 
The jails were filled to overflowing with political prisoners who had incurred his displeasure . 
He maintained amply financed lobbies in the United States and elsewhere which sycophantically chanted his praise , and his influence extended even to Congress . 
Until the last year or so the profession of friendship with the United States had been an article of faith with Trujillo , and altogether too often this profession was accepted here as evidence of his good character . 
Tardily the Government here came to understand how this country's own reputation was tarnished by the association with repression . 
Last year , after Trujillo had been cited for numerous aggressions in the Caribbean , the United States and many other members of the Organization of American States broke diplomatic relations with him . 
Thereupon followed a demonstration that tyranny knows no ideological confines . 
Trujillo's dictatorship had been along conservative , right-wing lines . 
But after the censure he and his propaganda started mouthing Communist slogans . 
There was considerable evidence of a tacit rapprochement with Castro in Cuba , previously a bete noire to Trujillo -- thus illustrating the way in which totalitarianism of the right and left coalesces . 
What comes after Trujillo is now the puzzle . 
The Dominican people have known no democratic institutions and precious little freedom for a generation , and all alternative leadership has been suppressed . 
Perhaps the army will be able to maintain stability , but the vacuum of free institutions creates a great danger . 
The Dominican Republic could turn toward Communist-type authoritarianism as easily as toward Western freedom . 
Such a twist would be a tragedy for the Dominican people , who deserve to breathe without fear . 
For that reason any democratic reform and effort to bring genuine representative government to the Dominican Republic will need the greatest sympathy and help . 
Start on rapid transit High-speed buses on the George Washington Memorial Parkway , operating between downtown Washington and Cabin John , Glen Echo and Brookmont , would constitute an alluring sample of what the new National Capital Transportation Agency can do for this city . 
In presenting plans for such express buses before the Montgomery County Council , the administrator of the NCTA , C. Darwin Stolzenbach , was frankly seeking support for the projects his agency will soon be launching . 
Such support should not be difficult to come by if all the plans to be presented by the NCTA are as attractive as this outline of express buses coming into the downtown area . 
Because the buses would not stop on the parkway , land for bus stations and for parking areas nearby will be needed . 
The NCTA is well advised to seek funds for this purpose from the present session of Congress . 
Must Berlin remain divided ? 
The inference has been too widely accepted that because the Communists have succeeded in building barricades across Berlin the free world must acquiesce in dismemberment of that living city . 
So far as the record is concerned , the Western powers have not acquiesced and should not do so . 
Though Walter Ulbricht , by grace of Soviet tanks , may be head man in East Germany , that does not give him any right to usurp the government of East Berlin or to absorb that semi-city into the Soviet zone . 
The wartime protocol of September 12 , 1944 , designated a special `` Greater Berlin '' area , comprising the entire city , to be under joint occupation . 
It was not a part of any one of the three ( later four ) zones for occupation by Soviet , American , British , and French troops respectively . 
After the Berlin blockade and airlift , the Council of Foreign Ministers in 1949 declared a purpose `` to mitigate the effects of the present administrative division of Germany and of Berlin '' . 
For some time the Communists honored the distinction between the Soviet zone of Germany and the Soviet sector of Berlin by promulgating separately the laws for the two areas . 
Then they moved offices of the East German puppet government into East Berlin and began illegally to treat it as the capital of East Germany . 
That this and the closing of the East Berlin-West Berlin border have not been accepted by the Western governments appears in notes which Britain , France , and the United States sent to Moscow after the latter's gratuitous protest over a visit of Chancellor Adenauer and other West German officials to West Berlin . 
The Chancellor had as much business there as Ulbricht had in East Berlin -- and was certainly less provocative than the juvenile sound-truck taunts of Gerhard Eisler . 
The British and other replies to that Moscow note pointed out efforts of the Communist authorities `` to integrate East Berlin into East Germany by isolating it from the outside and attempting to make it the capital of East Germany '' . 
They insisted on the `` fundamental fact '' that `` the whole of Berlin has a quadripartite status '' . 
This is far from acknowledging or recognizing those efforts as an accomplished fact . 
There remains , of course , the question of what the West can do beyond diplomatic protest to prevent the illegal efforts from becoming accomplished facts . 
One ground of action certainly exists when fusillades of stray shots go over into West Berlin as Communist `` vopos '' try to gun down fleeing unarmed residents . 
Another remained when an American Army car was recovered but with a broken glass . 
The glass may seem trivial but Communist official hooliganism feeds on such incidents unless they are redressed . 
Remembering the step-by-step fate of Danzig and the West German misgivings about `` salami '' tactics , it is to be hoped that the dispatch of General Clay to West Berlin as President Kennedy's representative will mark a stiffening of response not only to future indignities and aggressions but also to some that have passed . 
Prairie National Park Thousands of buffalo ( `` bison '' they will never be to the man on the street ) grazing like a mobile brown throw-rug upon the rolling , dusty-green grassland . 
A horizon even and seamless , binding the vast sun-bleached dome of sky to earth . 
That picture of the American prairie is as indelibly fixed in the memory of those who have studied the conquest of the American continent as any later cinema image of the West made in live-oak canyons near Hollywood . 
For it was the millions of buffalo and prairie chicken and the endless seas of grass that symbolized for a whole generation of Americans the abundant supply that was to take many of them westward when the Ohio and Mississippi valleys began to fill . 
The National Park Service now proposes to preserve an area in Pottawatomie County , northeast Kansas , as a `` Prairie National Park '' . 
There the buffalo would roam , to be seen as a tapestry , not as moth-eaten zoo specimens . 
Wooded stream valleys in the folds of earth would be saved . 
Grasslands would extend , unfenced , unplowed , unbroken by silo or barn -- as the first settlers saw them . 
The Park Service makes an impressive ecological and statistical case for creating this new park . 
American history should clinch the case when Congress is asked to approve . 
Whisky on the air A Philadelphia distiller is currently breaching the customary prohibition against hard-liquor advertising on TV and radio . 
Starting with small stations not members of the National Association of Broadcasters , the firm apparently is seeking to break down the anti-liquor barriers in major-market stations . 
Probably the best answer to this kind of entering wedge is congressional action requiring the Federal Communications Commission to ban such advertising through its licensing power . 
The National Association of Broadcasters code specifically bars hard-liquor commercials . 
Past polls of public opinion show popular favor for this policy . 
Even the Distilled Spirits Institute has long had a specific prohibition . 
Why , then , with these voluntary barricades and some state laws barring liquor ads , is it necessary to seek congressional action ? 
Simply because the subverting action of firms that are not members of the Distilled Spirits Institute and of radio and TV stations that are not members of the NAB tends to spread . 
Soon some members of the two industry groups doubtless will want to amend their codes on grounds that otherwise they will suffer unfairly from the efforts of non-code competitors . 
Although the false glamour surrounding bourbon or other whisky commercials is possibly no more fatuous than the pseudo-sophistication with which TV soft-drinks are downed or toothpaste applied , there is a sad difference between enticing a viewer into sipping Oopsie-Cola and gulling him into downing bourbon . 
A law is needed . 
New York : Democrats' choice Registered Democrats in New York City this year have the opportunity to elect their party's candidates for Mayor and other municipal posts and the men who will run their party organization . 
In the central contest , that for Mayor , they may have found some pertinent points in what each faction has said about the other . 
Mayor Robert F. Wagner must , as his opponents demand , assume responsibility for his performance in office . 
While all citizens share in blame for lax municipal ethics the Wagner regime has seen serious problems in the schools , law enforcement and fiscal policies . 
The Mayor is finding it awkward to campaign against his own record . 
State Controller Arthur Levitt , on the other hand , cannot effectively deny that he has chosen to be the candidate of those party leaders who as a rule have shown livelier interest in political power than in the city's welfare . 
They , too , have links with the city's ills . 
Both men are known to be honest and public-spirited . 
Mayor Wagner's shortcomings have perhaps been more mercilessly exposed than those of Mr. Levitt who left an impression of quiet competence in his more protected state post . 
As Mayor , Mr. Levitt might turn out to be more independent than some of his leading supporters would like . 
His election , on the other hand , would unquestionably strengthen the `` regulars '' . 
Mr. Wagner might or might not be a `` new '' Mayor in this third term , now that he is free of the pressure of those party leaders whom he calls `` bosses '' . 
These are , of course , the same people whose support he has only now rejected to seek the independent vote . 
But his reelection would strengthen the liberal Democrats and the labor unions who back him . 
If this choice is less exciting than New York Democrats may wish , it nevertheless must be made . 
The vote still gives citizens a voice in the operation of their government and their party . 
Little war , big test Both Mr. K's have so far continued to speak softly and carry big sticks over Laos . 
President Kennedy , already two quiet demands down , still refused Thursday to be drawn into delivering a public ultimatum to Moscow . 
But at the same time he moved his helicopter-borne marines to within an hour of the fighting . 
And Secretary Rusk , en route to Bangkok , doubtless is trying to make emergency arrangements for the possible entry of Australian or Thai SEATO forces . 
For Mr. Kennedy , speaking softly and carrying a sizable stick is making the best of a bad situation . 
The new President is in no position to start out his dealings with Moscow by issuing callable bluffs . 
He must show at the outset that he means exactly what he says . 
In this case he has put the alternatives clearly to Mr. Khrushchev for the third time . 
At his press conference Mr. Kennedy said , `` All we want in Laos is peace not war a truly neutral government not a cold war pawn '' . 
At the scene he has just as clearly shown his military strength in unprovocative but ready position . 
Since Laos is of no more purely military value to Moscow itself than it is to Washington , this approach might be expected to head off Mr. Khrushchev for the moment . 
But because of the peculiar nature of the military situation in Laos , the Soviet leader must be tempted to let things ride -- a course that would appear to cost him little on the spot , but would bog Washington in a tactical mess . 
As wars go , Laos is an extremely little one . 
Casualties have been running about a dozen men a day . 
The hard core of the pro-Communist rebel force numbers only some 2,000 tough Viet Minh guerrilla fighters . 
But for the United States and its SEATO allies to attempt to shore up a less tough , less combat-tested government army in monsoon-shrouded , road-shy , guerrilla-th'-wisp terrain is a risk not savored by Pentagon planners . 
But if anything can bring home to Mr. Khrushchev the idea that he will not really get much enjoyment from watching this Braddock-against-the-Indians contest , it will probably be the fact that SEATO forces are ready to attempt it -- plus the fact that Moscow has something to lose from closing off disarmament and other bigger negotiations with Washington . 
Fortunately both the Republicans and America's chief Western allies now are joined behind the neutral Laos aim of the President . 
Actually it would be more accurate to say that the leader of the alliance now has swung fully behind the British policy of seeking to achieve a neutral Laos via the international bargaining table . 
It is ironic that Washington is having to struggle so for a concept that for six years it bypassed as unreasonable . 
The State Department tacitly rejected the neutral Laos idea after the Geneva conference of 1954 , and last year Washington backed the rightist coup that ousted neutral Premier Souvanna Phouma . 
But since last fall the United States has been moving toward a pro-neutralist position and now is ready to back the British plan for a cease-fire patrolled by outside observers and followed by a conference of interested powers . 
The road to a guaranteed-neutral , coup-proof Laos is today almost as difficult as warfare on that nation's terrain . 
But for the safety of Southeast Asia , and for the sake of the Laotian people -- who would not be well-ruled by either militant minority now engaged in the fighting -- this last big effort to seal that country from the cold war had to be made . 
The world awaits Mr. Khrushchev's choice of alternatives . 
A vote for educational TV The Senate's overwhelming ( 64-13 ) vote to support locally controlled educational TV efforts should be emulated in the lower house . 
Twice previously the Senate has approved measures backing ETV and the House has let them die . 
But this year prospects may be better . 
The House communications subcommittee is expected to report out a good bill calling for the states to match federal funds . 
This year's Senate measure would provide each state and the District of Columbia with $1,000,000 to be used in support of private , state , or municipal ETV efforts . 
The funds would be used for equipment , not for land , buildings , or operation . 
The relatively few communities that have educational stations have found them of considerable value . 
But , lacking money from commercial sponsors , the stations have had difficulties meeting expenses or improving their service . 
Other communities -- the ones to be aided most by the Senate bill -- have had difficulty starting such stations because of the high initial cost of equipment . 
A good man departs . 
Goodby , Mr. Sam . 
Sam Rayburn was a good man , a good American , and , third , a good Democrat . 
He was all of these rolled into one sturdy figure ; ; Mr. Speaker , Mr. Sam , and Mr. Democrat , at one and the same time . 
The House was his habitat and there he flourished , first as a young representative , then as a forceful committee chairman , and finally in the post for which he seemed intended from birth , Speaker of the House , and second most powerful man in Washington . 
Mr. Rayburn was not an easy man to classify or to label . 
He was no flaming liberal , yet the New Deal , the Fair Deal and the New Frontier needed him . 
He was not a rear-looking conservative , yet partisans of that persuasion will miss him as much as any . 
Two of the vital qualities demanded of a politician by other politicians are that he always keep a confidence and that he keep his word . 
Sam Rayburn took unnumbered secrets with him to the grave , for he was never loquacious , and his word , once given , was not subject to retraction . 
It might be added that as he kept his word so he expected that others keep theirs . 
The demonstration of his power was never flamboyant or theatrical . 
His leadership was not for audiences . 
A growl , a nod , was usually enough . 
When it was not , one of the great dramas of Washington would be presented . 
He would rise in the well of the House , his chin upon his chest , his hands gripping the side of a desk , and the political and legislative chatter would subside into silence . 
He spoke briefly , sensibly , to the point and without oratorical flourishes . 
He made good , plain American common sense and the House usually recognized it and acted upon it . 
These public efforts were rare because Mr. Rayburn normally did his counseling , persuading and educating long before an issue reached its test on the House floor . 
He expected Democrats to do their duty when it had been patiently pointed out to them . 
With his long service he had a long memory , an excellent thing in a political leader . 
He was , of course , in the House for a very long time . 
There are only two men remaining in Congress who , with Rayburn , voted for the declaration of war against Germany in 1917 . 
To almost two generations of Americans it must have seemed as though the existence of Mr. Sam coincided with that of the House . 
And it was the House he loved . 
To be presiding officer of it was the end of his desire and ambition . 
The Senate to him was not the `` upper body '' and he corrected those who said he served `` under '' the president . 
He served `` with '' him . 
Sound the roll of those with whom he served and who preceded him in death . 
Woodrow Wilson , with whom he began his years in Washington , Warren G. Harding , Calvin Coolidge , FDR , with whom he managed a social revolution . 
And those still with us , Herbert C. Hoover , Harry S. Truman , Dwight D. Eisenhower and John F. Kennedy . 
He was a fighter for those of his own party . 
Mr. Truman has only to recall the `` hopeless '' campaign of 1948 to remember what a loyal partisan he was and the first experience of Mr. Kennedy with Congress would have been sadder than it was had not Mr. Sam been there . 
As it was , his absence because of his final illness was a blow to the administration . 
With Republican presidents , he fought fair . 
He was his own man , not an automatic obstructionist . 
He kept his attacks on Republicanism for partisan campaigns , but that is part of the game he was born to play . 
Under any name -- Mr. Speaker , Mr. Democrat , Mr. Sam -- he was a good man . 
un off the Congo track Thirteen Italian airmen who went to the Congo to serve the cause of peace under the United Nations banner have instead met violent death at the hands of Congolese troops supposedly their friends . 
In 18 months , no more grisly incident has been reported from that jungle . 
Simply out of bloodlust , their murderers dismembered the bodies and tossed the remains into the river . 
The excuse was offered for them that they had mistaken the Italians for Belgian mercenaries . 
In other words , atrocities by savages wearing the uniform of the central government might be condoned , had the victims been serving the cause of dissident Katanga . 
Does this suggest that the Congo is fit for nationhood or that UN is making any progress whatever toward its goal of so making it ? 
To the contrary , through the past six weeks violence has been piled upon violence . 
Mass rapes , troop mutinies , uncontrolled looting and pillage and reckless military adventures , given no sanction by any political authority , have become almost daily occurrences . 
Yet this basic condition of outlawry and anarchy is not the work of Katanga . 
It happens in the territory of the Leopoldville government , which is itself a fiction , demonstrably incapable of governing , and commanding only such limited credit abroad as UN support gives it . 
The main question raised by the incident is how much longer will UN bury its head in the sand on the Congo problem instead of facing the bitter fact that it has no solution in present terms ? 
The probable answer is that it will do so just as long as Russia can exercise a veto in favor of chaos and until young African nations wake up to the truth that out of false pride they are visiting ruin on Central Africa . 
Right now , they are pushing a resolution which would have UN use its forces to invade and subjugate Katanga . 
That notion is fantastically wrong-headed from several points of view . 
The UN army is too weak , too demoralized for the task . 
Further , it has its work cut out stopping anarchy where it is now garrisoned . 
Last , it makes no sense to deliver Katanga , the one reasonably solid territory , into the existing chaos . 
The Congo should have been mandated , because it was not ready for independence . 
The idea was not even suggested because political expediency prevailed over wisdom . 
It is perhaps too late now to talk of mandate because it is inconsistent with what is termed political realism . 
But if any realism and feeling for truth remain in the General Assembly , it is time for men of courage to measure the magnitude of the failure and urge some new approach . 
Otherwise , UN will march blindly on to certain defeat . 
Featherbed reversal A recent editorial discussing a labor-management agreement reached between the Southern Pacific Co. and the Order of Railroad Telegraphers has been criticized on the grounds that it was not based on complete information . 
The editorial was based on a news association dispatch which said that the telegraphers had secured an agreement whereby they were guaranteed 40 hours' pay per week whether they worked or not and that a reduction in their number was limited to 2 per cent per year . 
Our comment was that this was `` featherbedding '' in its ultimate form and that sympathy for the railroad was misplaced since it had entered into such an agreement . 
The statement was also made that undoubtedly the railroad had received some compensating benefit from the telegraphers , but that it was difficult to imagine what could balance a job for life . 
Additional information supplied to us discloses that the railroad gained a stabilized supply of telegraphers of which it was in need . 
Also , normal personnel attrition would make the job reduction provision more or less academic . 
The situation with regard to the Southern Pacific was therefore a special one and not necessarily applicable to other situations in other industries . 
The solution reached in the agreement was more acceptable to the railroad than that originally included in a series of union demands . 
Meditations from a fallout shelter Time was when the house of delegates of the American Bar association leaned to the common sense side . 
But the internationalists have taken over the governing body of the bar , and when the lads met in St. Louis , it was not to grumble about the humidity but to vote unanimously that the United Nations was scarcely less than wonderful , despite an imperfection here and there . 
It was , the brief writers decided , `` man's best hope for a peaceful and law abiding world '' . 
Peace , it's wonderful , and `` world law '' , it's wonderful , too , and shouldn't we get an international covenant extending it into space , before the Russians put some claim jumper on the moon ? 
Meanwhile , in Moscow , Khrushchev was adding his bit to the march of world law by promising to build a bomb with a wallop equal to 100 million tons of TNT , to knock sense into the heads of those backward oafs who can't see the justice of surrendering West Berlin to communism . 
A nuclear pacifier of these dimensions -- roughly some six and a half times bigger than anything the United States has triggered experimentally -- would certainly produce a bigger bang , and , just for kicks , Khrushchev might use it to propel the seminar of the house of delegates from St. Louis to the moon , where there wouldn't even be any beer to drink . 
While he was at it , the philosopher of the Kremlin contributed an additional assist to the rule of reason by bellowing at those in the west who can't appreciate coexistence thru suicide . 
`` Fools '' , he bayed , `` what do you think you are doing '' ? 
The only response we can think of is the humble one that at least we aren't playing the marimba with our shoes in the United Nations , but perhaps the heavy domes in the house of delegates can improve on this feeble effort . 
Another evidence of the spreading rule of reason was provided from Mexico City with the daily hijacking of an American plane by a demented Algerian with a gun . 
The craft made the familiar unwelcome flight to Havana , where , for some unknown reason , Castro rushed to the airport to express mortification to the Colombian foreign minister , a passenger , who is not an admirer of old Ten O'Clock Shadow . 
The plane was sent back to the United States , for a change , but Castro kept the crazy gunman , who will prove a suitable recruit to the revolution . 
Less respect for the legal conventions was displayed by Castro's right hand man , Che Guevara , who edified the Inter-American Economic and Social council meeting in Montevideo by reading two secret American documents purloined from the United States embassy at Caracas , Venezuela . 
The contents were highly embarrassing to American spokesmen , who were on hand to promise Latin Americans a 20 billion dollar foreign aid millennium . 
Perhaps the moralities of world law are not advanced by stealing American diplomatic papers and planes , but the Kennedy administration can always file a demurrer to the effect that , but for its own incompetence in protecting American interests , these things would not happen . 
The same can be said about the half-hearted Cuban invasion mounted by the administration last April , which , we trust , is not symptomatic of the methods to be invoked in holding off the felonious Khrushchev . 
Pass the iron rations , please , and light another candle , for it's getting dark down here and we're minded to read a bit of world law just to pass the time away . 
The customer loses again . 
The board of suspension of the Interstate Commerce commission has ordered a group of railroads not to reduce their freight rates on grain , as they had planned to do this month . 
The request for lower rates originated with the Southern railway , which has spent a good deal of time and money developing a 100-ton hopper car with which it says it can move grain at about half what it costs in the conventional , smaller car . 
By reducing rates as much as 60 per cent , it and its associated railroads hope to win back some of the business they have lost to truckers and barge lines . 
The board's action shows what free enterprise is up against in our complex maze of regulatory laws . 
A shock wave from Africa Word of Dag Hammarskjold's death in an African plane crash has sent a shockwave around the globe . 
As head of the United Nations he was the symbol of world peace , and his tragic end came at a moment when peace hangs precariously . 
It was on the eve of a momentous U.N. session to come to grips with cold war issues . 
His firm hand will be desperately missed . 
Mr. Hammarskjold was in Africa on a mission of peace . 
He had sought talks with Moise Tshombe , the secessionist president of Congo's Katanga province where recent fighting had been bloody . 
He earnestly urged a cease-fire . 
The story of the fatal crash is not fully known . 
The U.N.-chartered plane which was flying from the conference city of Ndola in Northern Rhodesia had been riddled with machinegun bullets last weekend and was newly repaired . 
Whether this , or overt action , was the cause of the crash must be promptly determined . 
The death of Mr. Hammarskjold removes the United Nations' most controversial leader . 
He was controversial because he was uncompromising for peace and freedom with justice . 
He courageously defended the rights of small nations , and he stood his ground against the savage attacks of the Communist bloc . 
The Congo , in whose cause he died , was the scene of one of his greatest triumphs . 
His policies had resolved the conflicts that threatened to ignite the cold war and workable solutions were beginning to take shape . 
When the recent Katangan outbreaks imperiled these solutions Mr. Hammarskjold , despite the danger , flew to exert a calming influence . 
He gave his life for his beliefs . 
The U.N. session scheduled for today will meet under the cloud of his passing . 
It is a crucial session with the world on the edge of momentous developments . 
If the manner of his passing moves the nations to act in the spirit of his dedication the sore issues that plague the world can yet be resolved with reason and justice . 
That is the hope of mankind . 
Monument to togetherness reaching agreement on projects of value to the whole community has long been one of Greater Miami's hardest tasks . 
Too many have bogged down in bickering . 
Even when public bodies arrived at a consensus , at least one dissenting vote has been usual . 
So we note approvingly a fresh sample of unanimity . 
All nine members of the Inter-American Center Authority voted for Goodbody & Company's proposal to finance the long-awaited trade and cultural center . 
The widely known financial firm has 60 days to spell out the terms of its contract . 
If the indenture is accepted , the authority will proceed to validate a bond issue repayable from revenue . 
Then Goodbody will hand over a minimum of $15.5 million for developing the spacious Graves Tract to house the center . 
The next step awaits approval today by the Metro commissioners as the members of the Dade County Port Authority . 
They allotted $500,000 three years ago to support Interama until its own financing could be arranged . 
Less than half the sum has been spent , since the Interama board pinched pennies during that period of painstaking negotiations . 
The balance is being budgeted for the coming year . 
Unanimity on Interama is not surprising . 
It is one of the rare public ventures here on which nearly everyone is agreed . 
The City of Miami recently yielded a prior claim of $8.5 million on the Graves Tract to clear the way for the project . 
County officials have cooperated consistently . 
So have the people's elected spokesmen at the state and federal levels . 
Interama , as it rises , will be a living monument to Greater Miami's ability to get together on worthwhile enterprises . 
A short report and a good one progress , or lack of it , toward civil rights in the 50 states is reported in an impressive 689-page compilation issued last week by the United States Commission on Civil Rights . 
Much happened in this field during the past 12 months . 
Each state advisory committee documented its own activity . 
Some accounts are quite lengthy but Florida's is the shortest of all , requiring only four paragraphs . 
`` The established pattern of relative calm in the field of race relations has continued in all areas '' , reported this group headed by Harold Colee of Jacksonville and including two South Floridians , William D. Singer and John B. Turner of Miami . 
`` No complaints or charges have been filed during the past year , either verbally or written , from any individual or group . 
`` The committee continues to feel that Florida has progressed in a sound and equitable program at both the state and local levels in its efforts to review and assess transition problems as they arise from time to time in the entire spectrum of civil rights '' . 
Problems have arisen in this sensitive field but have been handled in most cases with understanding and restraint . 
The progress reported by the advisory committee is real . 
While some think we move too fast and others too slowly , Florida's record is a good one and stands out among the 50 . 
West Germany remains Western West Germany will face the crucial tests that lie ahead , on Berlin and unification , with a coalition government . 
This is the key fact emerging from Sunday's national election . 
Chancellor Adenauer's Christian Democratic Party slipped only a little in the voting but it was enough to lose the absolute Bundestag majority it has enjoyed since 1957 . 
In order to form a new government it must deal with one of the two rival parties which gained strength . 
Inevitably this means some compromise . 
The aging chancellor in all likelihood will be retired . 
Both Willy Brandt's Social Democrats , who gained 22 seats in the new parliament , and the Free Democrats , who picked up 23 , will insist on that before they enter the government . 
Moon-faced Ludwig Erhart , the economic expert , probably will ascend to the leadership long denied him . 
If he becomes chancellor , Dr. Erhart would make few changes . 
The wizard who fashioned West Germany's astonishing industrial rebirth is the soul of free enterprise . 
He is dedicated to building the nation's strength and , as are all West Germans , to a free Berlin and to reunion with captive East Germany . 
What is in doubt as the free Germans and their allies consider the voting trends is the nature of the coalition that will result . 
If the party of Adenauer and Erhart , with 45 per cent of the vote , approaches the party of Willy Brandt , which won 36 per cent , the result would be a stiffening of the old resolve . 
West Berlin's Mayor Brandt vigorously demanded a firmer stand on the dismemberment of his city and won votes by it . 
The Free Democrats ( 12 per cent of the vote ) believe a nuclear war can be avoided by negotiating with the Soviet Union , and more dealings with the Communist bloc . 
The question left by the election is whether West Germany veers slightly toward more firmness or more flexibility . 
It could go either way , since the gains for both points of view were about the same . 
Regardless of the decision two facts are clear . 
West Germany , with its industrial and military might , reaffirmed its democracy and remains firm with the free nations . 
And the career of Konrad Adenauer , who upheld Germany's tradition of rock-like leaders which Bismarck began , draws near the end . 
Better ask before joining Americans are a nation of joiners , a quality which our friends find endearing and sometimes amusing . 
But it can be dangerous if the joiner doesn't want to make a spectacle of himself . 
For instance , so-called `` conservative '' organizations , some of them secret , are sprouting in the garden of joining where `` liberal '' organizations once took root . 
One specific example is a secret `` fraternity '' which will `` coordinate anti-Communist efforts '' . 
The principle is commendable but we suspect that in the practice somebody is going to get gulled . 
According to The Chicago Tribune News Service , State Atty. Gen. Stanley Mosk of California has devised a series of questions which the joiner might well ask about any organization seeking his money and his name : 1 . 
Does it assail schools and churches with blanket accusations ? 
2 . 
Does it attack other traditional American institutions with unsupportable and wild charges ? 
3 . 
Does it put the label of un-American or subversive on everyone with whom it disagrees politically ? 
4 . 
Does it attempt to rewrite modern history by blaming American statesmen for wars , Communism , depression , and other troubles of the world ? 
5 . 
Does it employ crude pressure tactics with such means as anonymous telephone calls and letter writing campaigns ? 
6 . 
Do its spokesmen seem more interested in the amount of money they collect than in the principles they purport to advocate ? 
In some instances a seventh question can be added : 7 . 
Does the organization show an affinity for a foreign government , political party or personality in opposition or preference to the American system ? 
If the would-be joiner asks these questions he is not likely to be duped by extremists who are seeking to capitalize on the confusions and the patriotic apprehensions of Americans in a troubled time . 
Falling somewhere in a category between Einstein's theory and sand fleas -- difficult to see but undeniably there , nevertheless -- is the tropical green `` city '' of Islandia , a string of offshore islands that has almost no residents , limited access and an unlimited future . 
The latter is what concerns us all . 
Whatever land you can see here , from the North tip end of Elliott Key looking southward , belongs to someone -- people who have title to the land . 
And what you can't see , the land underneath the water , belongs to someone , too . 
The public . 
The only real problem is to devise a plan whereby the owners of the above-water land can develop their property without the public losing its underwater land and the right to its development for public use and enjoyment . 
In the fairly brief but hectic history of Florida , the developers of waterfront land have too often wound up with both their land and ours . 
In this instance , happily , insistence is being made that our share is protected . 
And until this protection is at least as concrete as , say , the row of hotels that bars us from our own sands at Miami Beach , those who represent us all should agree to nothing . 
Closed doors in city hall The reaction of certain City Council members to California's newest anti-secrecy laws was as dismaying as it was disappointing . 
We had assumed that at least this local legislative body had nothing to hide , and , therefore , had no objections to making the deliberations of its committees and the city commissions available to the public . 
In the preamble to the open-meeting statutes , collectively known as the Brown Act , the Legislature declares that `` the public commissions , boards and councils and other public agencies in this state exist to aid in the conduct of the people's business . 
It is the intent of the law that their actions be taken openly and that their deliberations be conducted openly . 
`` The people of this state do not yield their sovereignty to the agencies that serve them . 
The people , in delegating authority , do not give their public servants the right to decide what is good for the people to know and what is not good for them to know . 
The full implementation of these noble words , however , has taken the efforts of five sessions of the Legislature . 
Since 1953 California has led the nation in enacting guarantees that public business shall be publicly conducted , but not until this year did the lawmakers in Sacramento plug the remaining loopholes in the Brown Act . 
Despite the lip service paid by local governments , the anti-secrecy statutes have been continuously subverted by reservations and rationalizations . 
When all else fails , it is argued that open sessions slow down governmental operations . 
We submit that this is a most desirable effect of the law -- and one of its principal aims . 
Without public scrutiny the deliberations of public agencies would no doubt be conducted more speedily . 
But the citizens would , of course , never be sure that the decisions that resulted were as correct as they were expeditious . 
Help when needed If the Dominican Republic achieves free , democratic government , it will be due in large part to the U.S. show of force that enabled President Balaguer to prevent a threatened restoration of Trujillo dictatorship . 
Outwardly , Ciudad Trujillo is calm . 
None of the Trujillo family remains . 
Mr. Balaguer is in control , and opposition leaders have no further excuse to suspect his offer of a coalition government preliminary to free elections in the spring . 
Had U.S. warships not appeared off the Dominican coast , there is every possibility that the country would now be wracked by civil war . 
Ultimately either the Trujillos would have been returned to power or the conflict would have produced conditions favorable to a takeover by Dominican elements responsive to Castro in Cuba . 
Within the Organization of American States , there may be some criticism of this unilateral American intervention which was not without risk obviously . 
But there was no complaint from the Dominican crowds which lined Ciudad Trujillo's waterfront shouting , `` Vive Yankees '' ! 
More , the U.S. action was hailed by a principal opposition leader , Dr. Juan Bosch , as having saved `` many lives and many troubles in the near future '' . 
Mr. Balaguer's troubles are by no means over . 
He will need the help of all OAS members to eradicate , finally , the forces of authoritarianism , pro-Trujillo and pro-Castro alike . 
In cooperating toward that objective , OAS might move with the speed and effectiveness demonstrated by the United States . 
Matter of survival those watching the growing rivalry between craft unions and industrial unions may recognize all the pressures that led to the big labor split in 1935 . 
Now , as then , it is a matter of jobs . 
Craft unions seek work that industrial unions claim , such as factory maintenance . 
The issue was sufficiently potent in 1935 to spark secession from the American Federation of Labor of its industrial union members . 
That breach was healed 20 years later by merger of the American Federation of Labor and the Congress of Industrial Organizations . 
Or that's what it looked like at the time . 
But automation and the increasing complexity of factories has renewed the competition for jobs . 
Walter Reuther , leader of the industrial union faction of the AFL-CIO , says another two years of this squabbling will be disastrous for all American labor . 
Whether it could be as disastrous for American labor as , say , Jimmy Hoffa of the Teamsters , is a matter of conjecture . 
But the jurisdictional disputes that result from the craft-industrial rivalry do not win friends for labor . 
Engaged as it is in a battle for world trade as a condition of national survival , this country can have little patience with labor's family feuds . 
The concept of labor as a special class is outmoded , and in the task confronting America as bastion of the free world , labor must learn to put the national interest first if it is itself to survive . 
Deterrent the Army , Navy and Air Force , among others , may question Secretary Freeman's claim that the high estate of United States agriculture is the `` strongest deterrent '' to the spread of communism . 
But the secretary insists that the success of the American farmer is the `` greatest single source of strength '' in the struggle to insure freedom around the world . 
Mr. Freeman said that in many of the countries he visited on a recent world trade trip people were more awed by America's capacity to produce food surpluses than by our industrial production -- or even by the Soviet's successes in space . 
This shouldn't surprise the secretary ; ; American taxpayers have been impressed by the surpluses for a long , long time . 
In fact , over the years , the American farmer's capacity to over-produce has cost the taxpayers a large dollar . 
And thus far , Mr. Freeman has offered very little relief . 
The 1961 feed grain program , which the secretary sponsored , has been declared a billion dollar fiasco . 
In exchange for higher price supports , growers pledged reduction in planted acreage . 
But the farmers outsmarted Washington by shortening the distance between the rows and pouring on the fertilizer . 
The result : $1.1 billion added to the deficit in the federal budget . 
Perhaps , as Mr. Freeman says , American agriculture may stop the Communists , but it is also swindling the American taxpayer . 
What's wrong at state A senate subcommittee headed by Sen. Jackson of Washington has been going over the State Department and has reached some predictable conclusions . 
The department needs a clearer `` sense of direction '' at the top and it needs fewer , but better , people , Sen. Jackson says . 
The subcommittee is not alone in questioning the effectiveness of the department . 
President Kennedy has indicated his dissatisfaction with its performance . 
But those who would revitalize so complex an organization must , first of all , overcome the resistance of layers of officials wedded to traditional procedures , suspicious of innovation and fearful of mistakes . 
Nor does Sen. Jackson discuss the delicate situation created by the presence in the White House of a corps of presidential assistants engaged in the study of foreign policy . 
This tends to create friction and confusion and has not made it easier for Secretary Rusk to restore vigor and initiative among his subordinates . 
But competent observers believe he is making progress , particularly toward what Sen. Jackson lists as the primary need -- `` a clearer understanding of where our vital national interests lie and what we must do to promote them '' . 
The Jackson report will provide some of the political support Mr. Rusk will need if he is to get rid of department personnel engaged , as Sen. Jackson puts it , `` in work that does not really need doing '' . 
Mr. Rusk should also draw comfort from Sen. Jackson's recommendation that congressional methods of dealing with national security problems be improved . 
Self-criticism is a rare but needed commodity in Congress . 
Betting men forecasting economic activity is a hazardous undertaking even for the specialist . 
But now apparently the job of Secretary of Labor requires that he be willing to risk his reputation as a prognosticator of unemployment trends . 
James P. Mitchell , when he was the head of the department , promised to eat his hat if unemployment didn't drop below three million a couple of years ago . 
He lost , but settled for a cake in the shape of a fedora . 
His successor , Secretary Goldberg , also has been guessing wrong on a drop in the unemployment rate which has been holding just under 7 per cent for the last 11 months . 
No betting man , Mr. Goldberg says he's merely `` putting my neck out again '' by predicting the rate will go down this month . 
He is basing his guess on new government statistics that show business has broadened its stride -- a new record high in personal income , an increase in housing starts , a spurt in retail sales and a gain in orders for durable goods . 
Mr. Mitchell had an excuse for losing -- the steel strike lasted much longer than he anticipated . 
Mr. Goldberg has less reason for missing . 
The economy seems to be sailing along on an even keel and the 1961 hurricane season and auto strikes are at an end so they can't be blamed in November . 
The odds thus appear favorable that the secretary's neck may be spared . 
Little resistance Cambodia's chief of state , who has been accused of harboring Communist marauders and otherwise making life miserable for neighboring South Viet Nam and Thailand , insists he would be very unhappy if communism established its power in Southeast Asia . 
But so convinced of communism's inevitable triumph is Prince Sihanouk that he is ready to throw in the towel . 
`` I have to see the facts '' , is the way the prince puts it . 
And from that point of vantage he concedes another two years of grace to nations maintaining a pro-Western posture . 
Prince Sihanouk's powers of prognostication some day may be confirmed but history is not likely to praise the courage of his convictions . 
Bottom sighted Commerce Secretary Hodges seems to have been cast in the role of pacemaker for official Washington's economic forecasters . 
Weeks ago he saw a business upturn in the second quarter of this year while his colleagues in the Cabinet were shaking their heads in disagreement . 
Recently Treasury Secretary Dillon and Labor Secretary Goldberg fell into line with Mr. Hodges' appraisal , though there has been some reluctance to do so at the White House . 
And now Mr. Hodges has pioneered further into the economic unknown with the announcement that he thinks business has stopped sliding and that it should start going upward from this point . 
He is the first top administration officer to see the bottom of the slump . 
The secretary based his assessment on the upturn in retail sales . 
February's volume was 1 per cent above January's for the first pickup since last October , although it's still 1.5 per cent off from February 1960 . 
Corroborating Mr. Hodges' figures was the Federal Reserve Board's report of the large sales increase in the nation's department stores for the week ending March 4 . 
In Newark , for example , this gain was put at 26 per cent above the year-earlier level . 
Of course , some of the credit for the sale boost must be given to improvement in the weather and to the fact that Easter comes more than two weeks earlier than in 1960 . 
Another optimistic sign , this one from the Labor Department , was the report that the long rise in unemployment compensation payments `` was interrupted for the first time in the week ending Feb. 25 '' . 
Initial claims for jobless benefits were said to have dropped by 8,100 in the week ending March 4 . 
Mr. Hodges is so hopeful over the outlook that he doesn't think there will be any need of a cut in income taxes . 
Well , we can't have everything . 
Prosperity for the whole nation is certainly preferred to a tax cut . 
In New Jersey , too New Jersey folk need not be told of the builder's march to the sea , for in a single generation he has parceled and populated miles of our shoreline and presses on to develop the few open spaces that remain . 
Now the Stone Harbor bird sanctuary , 31 acres of magic attraction for exotic herons , is threatened , but the battlefront extends far beyond our state . 
Against the dramatic fight being waged for preservation of 30 miles of Cape Cod shoreline , the tiny tract at Stone Harbor may seem unimportant . 
But Interior Secretary Udall warns that there is a race on between those who would develop our few surviving open shorelines and those who would save them for the enjoyment of all as public preserves . 
The move for establishment of a national seashore park on 30,000 acres of Cape Cod , from Provincetown to Chatham , is strengthened by President Kennedy's interest in that area . 
But preservation of the natural beauty of the Cape is of more than regional concern , for the automobile age has made it the recreation spot of people from all over the country . 
By comparison , Stone Harbor bird sanctuary's allies seem less formidable , for aside from the Audubon Society , they are mostly the snowy , common and cattle egrets and the Louisiana , green , little blue and black-crowned herons who nest and feed there . 
But there is hope , for Conservation Commissioner Bontempo has tagged the sanctuary as the kind of place the state hopes to include in its program to double its park space . 
The desirability of preserving such places as the Cape dunes and Stone Harbor sanctuary becomes more apparent every year . 
Public sentiment for conserving our rich natural heritage is growing . 
But that heritage is shrinking even faster . 
No joyride much of the glamor President Kennedy's Peace Corps may have held for some prospective applicants has been removed by Sargent Shriver , the head corpsman . 
Anybody who is expecting a joyride should , according to Mr. Shriver , get off the train right now . 
First of all , the recruits will have to undergo arduous schooling . 
It will be a 16-hour training day . 
Then off to a remote place in an underdeveloped country where the diet , culture , language and living conditions will be different . 
And the pay , of course , will be nil . 
Despite all this , the idea apparently has captured the imagination of countless youths whose parents are probably more surprised by the response than anybody else . 
The study of the St. Louis area's economic prospects prepared for the Construction Industry Joint Conference confirms and reinforces both the findings of the Metropolitan St. Louis Survey of 1957 and the easily observed picture of the Missouri-Illinois countryside . 
St. Louis sits in the center of a relatively slow-growing and in some places stagnant mid-continent region . 
Slackened regional demand for St. Louis goods and services reflects the region's relative lack of purchasing power . 
Not all St. Louis industries , of course , have a market area confined to the immediate neighborhood . 
But for those which do , the slow growth of the area has a retarding effect on the metropolitan core . 
The city has a stake in stimulating growth and purchasing power throughout outstate Missouri and Southern Illinois . 
Gov. Dalton's New Commerce and Industry Commission is moving to create a nine-state regional group in a collective effort to attract new industry . 
That is one approach . 
Another would be to take the advice of Dr. Elmer Ellis , president of the University of Missouri , and provide for an impartial professional analysis of Missouri's economy . 
He says the state , in order to proceed with economic development , must develop an understanding of how the various parts of its economy fit together and dovetail into the national economy . 
The research center of the University's School of Business and Public Administration is prepared to undertake the analysis Dr. Ellis has been talking about . 
He and Dean John W. Schwada of the Business School outlined the project at a recent conference . 
The University can make a valuable contribution to the state's economic development through such a study . 
In Southern Illinois , the new federal program of help to economically depressed areas ought to provide some stimulus to growth . 
The Carbondale Industrial Development Corp. has obtained a $500,000 loan to help defray the cost of remodeling a city-owned factory to accommodate production that will provide 500 new jobs . 
Carbondale is in the Herrin-Murphysboro-West Frankfort labor market , where unemployment has been substantially higher than the national average . 
The Federal program eventually should have a favorable impact on Missouri's depressed areas , and in the long run that will benefit St. Louis as well . 
Politics-ridden St. Clair county in Illinois presents another piece of the problem of metropolitan development . 
More industrial acreage lies vacant in St. Clair county than in any other jurisdiction in the St. Louis area . 
The unstable political situation there represents one reason new plants shy away from the East Side . 
And then there is St. Louis county , where the Democratic leadership has shown little appreciation of the need for sound zoning , of the important relationship between proper land use and economic growth . 
St. Louis county under its present leadership also has largely closed its eyes to the need for governmental reform , and permitted parochial interests to take priority over area-wide interests . 
Some plant-location specialists take these signs to mean St. Louis county doesn't want industry , and so they avoid the area , and more jobs are lost . 
Metropolitan St. Louis's relatively slow rate of growth ought to be a priority concern of the political , business , civic and other leaders on both sides of the Mississippi . 
Without a great acceleration in the metropolitan area's economy , there will not be sufficient jobs for the growing numbers of youngsters , and St. Louis will slip into second-class status . 
An excess of zeal Many of our very best friends are reformers . 
Still we must confess that sometimes some of them go too far . 
Take , for example , the reformers among New York City's Democrats . 
Having whipped Mr. De Sapio in the primaries and thus come into control of Tammany Hall , they have changed the name to Chatham Hall . 
Even though headquarters actually have been moved into the Chatham building , do they believe that they can make the new name stick ? 
Granted that the Tammany name and the Tammany tiger often were regarded as badges of political shame , the sachems of the Hall also have a few good marks to their credit . 
But it is tradition rather than the record which balks at the expunging of the Tammany name . 
After all , it goes back to the days in which sedition was not un-American , the days in which the Sons of St. Tammany conspired to overthrow the government by force and violence -- the British government , that is . 
Further , do our reforming friends really believe that the cartoonists will consent to the banishment of the tiger from their zoo ? 
They will -- when they give up the donkey and the elephant . 
Instead of attempting the impossible , why not a publicity campaign to prove that all the tiger's stripes are not black ? 
That might go over . 
The Faget case The White House itself has taken steps to remove a former Batista official , Col. Mariano Faget , from his preposterous position as interrogator of Cuban refugees for the Immigration Service . 
The Faget appointment was preposterous on several grounds . 
The Kennedy Administration had assured anti-Castro Cubans that it would have nothing to do with associates of Dictator Batista . 
Using a Batista man to screen refugees represented a total misunderstanding of the democratic forces which alone can effectively oppose Castro . 
Moreover , Col. Faget's information on Cuba was too outdated to be useful in `` screening '' Castro agents ; ; the Colonel fled to the friendly haven of the Dominican dictatorship as soon as Castro seized power . 
And while he had headed Batista's anti-Communist section , the Batista regime did not disturb the Communists so much as more open opponents who were alleged to be Communists . 
Responsibility for the Faget appointment rests with Gen. J. M. Swing , an Eisenhower appointee as head of the Immigration Service . 
Gen. Swing has received public attention before this for abuse of some of the prerogatives of his office . 
His official term expired last summer . 
Some reports say he was rescued from timely retirement by his friend , Congressman Walter of Pennsylvania , at a moment when the Kennedy Administration was diligently searching for all the House votes it could get . 
Congressman Walter has been all-powerful in immigration matters , but he has announced plans to retire in 1962 . 
At that point the Administration will have little reason to hang onto Gen. Swing . 
The Faget case was the kind of salvage job the Administration should not have to repeat . 
Mr. Eisenhower , politician As President , Dwight D. Eisenhower often assumed a role aloof from the strife of partisan politics . 
As a former President , however , Mr. Eisenhower abandoned this role to engage in partisan sniping during a New York Republican rally , and generally missed his target . 
Mr. Eisenhower seized upon the incident of the postcard lost by a Peace Corps girl in Nigeria to attack the entire Corps as a `` juvenile experiment '' and to suggest sending a Corps member to the moon . 
This was juvenile ridicule . 
Nowhere did the speaker recognize the serious purpose of the Corps or its welcome reception abroad . 
His words were the more ungracious to come from a man who lent his name to the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships dedicated to the same goal of international understanding . 
The former President blithely ignored recent history in speaking of `` dollarette '' dollars under Kennedy Administration fiscal policies . 
It was the Eisenhower Administration which produced the largest peacetime deficit . 
Finally , Mr. Eisenhower found nothing but confusion in Washington . 
This statement recalls the 1959 Berlin crisis , when President Eisenhower first told reporters that Berlin could not be defended with conventional weapons and then added that a nuclear defense was out of the picture too . 
The crisis has been renewed since then but the confusion has hardly been compounded . 
Ex-Presidents , relieved of accountability for policy , sometimes seem to feel free of accountability for their words . 
Some of former President Truman's off-the-cuff discourses have been in that vein . 
Nobody can deny the right of former Chief Executives to take part in politics , but the American people expect them always to remember the obligations of national leadership and to treat issues with a sense of responsibility . 
This is a matter of respect for the Presidency . 
Mr. Eisenhower's New York speech does not encourage respect for that or for his elder statesmanship . 
Queen of the seas The Queen Mary has long been a symbol of speed , luxury , and impeccable British service on the high seas . 
Reports that the venerable liner , which has been in service since 1936 , was to be retired struck a nostalgic note in many of us . 
But the Cunard line , influenced by unpleasant economic facts and not sentiment , has decided to keep the Queen Mary in service until next Spring at least . 
A new queen , with the prosaic title of Q3 , had been planned for several years to replace the Queen Mary . 
The British government , concerned about the threat of unemployment in the shipbuilding industry , had put through a bill to give Cunard loans and grants totaling $50,400,000 toward the $84,000,000 cost of a new 75,000-ton passenger liner . 
Since 1957 , more and more trans-Atlantic passengers have been crossing by air . 
Economy class fares and charter flights have attracted almost all new passengers to the airlines . 
Competition from other steamship lines has cut Cunard's share of sea passengers from one-third to one-fourth and this year the line showed a marked drop of profits on the Atlantic run . 
The Cunard line has under consideration replacing the Queen Mary with a ship smaller than 75,000 tons . 
This would be cheaper to operate and could be used for cruises during the lean winter months . 
Also under consideration is an increased investment in Cunard Eagle Airways which has applied to serve New York . 
The decline of the Cunard line from its position of dominance in Atlantic travel is a significant development in the history of transportation . 
Mission to Viet Nam Gen. Maxwell Taylor's statement in Saigon that he is `` very much encouraged '' about the chances of the pro-Western government of Viet Nam turning back Communist guerrilla attacks comes close to an announcement that he will not recommend dispatching United States troops to bolster the Vietnamese Army . 
Gen. Taylor will report to President Kennedy in a few days on the results of his visit to South Viet Nam and , judging from some of his remarks to reporters in the Far East , he is likely to urge a more efficient mobilization of Vietnamese military , economic , political and other resources . 
There was good reason for Gen. Taylor to make an inspection trip at this time . 
Communist guerrillas recently have been reported increasing their activities and the great flood of the Mekong River has interposed a new crisis . 
South Viet Nam's rice surplus for next year -- more than 300,000 tons -- may have been destroyed . 
The Viet Cong , the Communist rebels , may have lost their stored grain and arms factories . 
The rebels may try to seize what is left of the October harvest when the floods recede and the monsoon ends in November . 
Nothing that is likely to happen , however , should prompt the sending of United States soldiers for other than instructional missions . 
The Indochina struggle was a war to stay out of in 1954 , when Gen. Ridgway estimated it would take a minimum of 10 to 15 divisions at the outset to win a war the French were losing . 
It is a war to stay out of today , especially in view of the fact that President Ngo Dinh Diem apparently does not want United States troops . 
He may want additional technical help , and this should be forthcoming . 
South Viet Nam has received $1,450,000,000 in United States aid since 1954 and the rate of assistance has been stepped up since Vice President Lyndon B. Johnson's visit last May . 
Gen. Taylor , the President's special military adviser , is a level-headed officer who is not likely to succumb to propaganda or pressure . 
It is probable that his recommendations will be informed and workable , and that they will not lead to involving the United States in an Asian morass . 
Gov. John M. Dalton , himself a lawyer and a man of long service in government , spoke with rich background and experience when he said in an address here that lawyers ought to quit sitting in the Missouri General Assembly , or quit accepting fees from individuals and corporations who have controversies with or axes to grind with the government and who are retained , not because of their legal talents , but because of their government influence . 
The U.N.'s ' gravest crisis ' Ambassador Stevenson yesterday described the U.N.'s problem of electing a temporary successor to the late Dag Hammarskjold as `` the gravest crisis the institution has faced '' . 
Of course it is . 
If the decision goes wrong , it may be -- as Mr. Stevenson fears -- `` the first step on the slippery path downhill '' to a U.N. without operational responsibilities and without effective meaning . 
The integrity of the office not merely requires that the Secretary General shall be , as the Charter puts it , `` the chief administrative officer of the Organization '' , but that neither he nor his staff shall seek or receive instructions from any government or any other authority `` external to the Organization '' . 
In other words , the Secretary General is to be a nonpartisan , international servant , not a political , national one . 
He should be , as Dag Hammarskjold certainly was , a citizen of the world . 
The Charter does stipulate that `` due regard '' shall be paid to the importance of recruiting the staff on `` as wide a geographical basis as possible '' . 
The United States and its allies have had no objection to this . 
What they have objected to is the attempt of the Russians to make use of the tragedy of Dag Hammarskjold's death to turn the entire U.N. staff from the Secretary down into political agents of the respective countries from which they come . 
The controversy now revolves mainly around the number and geographic origin of the deputies of the Secretary General and , more particularly , around the nature of his relationship with them . 
Although the United States and the U.S.S.R. have been arguing whether there shall be four , five or six top assistants , the most important element in the situation is not the number of deputies but the manner in which these deputies are to do their work . 
If any one of them has any power to veto the Secretary General's decisions the nature of the organization will have changed . 
If they give him advice when he asks it , or if they perform specified duties under his direction , the nature of the U. N. will not of necessity change . 
The Secretary General must have , subject to the constitutional direction of the Security Council and the General Assembly , the power to act , to propose action and to organize action without being hobbled by advisers and assistants acting on someone else's instructions . 
This is the root issue for which the United States should stand . 
We should not become confused or let our public become confused over irrelevant questions of number or even of geography . 
What we must have , if the United Nations is to survive , is as nonpolitical , nonpartisan an organization at the top as human beings can make it , subject to no single nation's direction and subservient to no single nation's ambition . 
What the new charter does The new City Charter , which should get a Yes vote as Question No. 1 on Nov. 7 , would not make a good Mayor out of a bad one . 
There is no such magic in man-made laws . 
But it would greatly strengthen any Mayor's executive powers , remove the excuse in large degree that he is a captive of inaction in the Board of Estimate , increase his budget-making authority both as to expense and capital budgets , and vest in him the right to reorganize city departments in the interest of efficiency and economy . 
Lawmaking power is removed from the Board of Estimate and made a partnership responsibility of the City Council and the Mayor . 
Thus there is a clearer division of authority , administrative and legislative . 
The board is diminished in both respects , while it retains control over zoning , franchises , pier leases , sale , leasing and assignment of property , and other trusteeship functions . 
The board will be able to increase , decrease , add or eliminate budget items , subject to the Mayor's veto ; ; but the City Council will now share fully this budget-altering power . 
Overriding of mayoral veto on budget changes will require concurrence by board and Council , and a two-thirds vote . 
The Controller retains his essential `` fiscal watchdog '' functions ; ; his broad but little used investigative powers are confirmed . 
He loses now-misplaced tax collection duties , which go to the Finance Department . 
On net balance , in spite of Controller Gerosa's opposition to the new Charter as an invasion of his office , the Controller will have the opportunity for greater usefulness to good government than he has now . 
Borough Presidents , while retaining membership in the Board of Estimate , lose their housekeeping functions . 
Highways go to a new Department of Highways , sewers to the Department of Public Works , such street cleaning as Borough Presidents now do ( in Queens and Richmond ) to the Sanitation Department . 
Some fiscal changes are important . 
The expense ( operating ) budget is to be a program budget , and red tape is cut to allow greater autonomy ( with the Mayor approving ) in fund transfers within a department . 
The capital budget , for construction of permanent improvements , becomes an appropriating document instead of just a calendar of pious promises ; ; but , as a second-look safeguard , each new project must undergo a Board of Estimate public hearing before construction proceeds . 
A road block to desirable local or borough improvements , heretofore dependent on the pocketbook vote of taxpayers and hence a drag on progress , is removed by making these a charge against the whole city instead of an assessment paid by those immediately affected . 
This will have a beneficial effect by expediting public business ; ; it will also correct some injustices . 
Enlargement of the City Council and a new method of selecting members will be discussed tomorrow . 
Inter-american Press The Inter-american Press Association , which blankets the Western Hemisphere from northern Canada to Cape Horn , is meeting in New York City this week for the first time in eleven years . 
The I. A. P. A. is a reflection of the problems and hopes of the hemisphere ; ; and in these days this inevitably means a concentration on the effects of the Cuban revolution . 
As the press in Cuba was gradually throttled by the Castro regime , more and more Cuban publishers , editors and correspondents were forced into exile . 
The I. A. P. A. found itself driven from journalism into politics as it did its best to bring about the downfall of the Castro Government and the return of the Cuban press to the freedom it knew before Batista's dictatorship began in 1952 . 
Freedom of the press was lost in Cuba because of decades of corruption and social imbalances . 
In such conditions all freedoms are lost . 
This , in more diplomatic language , is what Adlai Stevenson told the newspaper men of Latin America yesterday on behalf of the United States Government . 
He felt able to end on a note of hope . 
He sees evidence of fair winds for the ten-year Alliance for Progress plan with its emphasis on social reforms . 
No group can contribute more to the success of the program than the editors and publishers of the Inter-American Press Association . 
Meeting in Moscow The Twenty-second Soviet Communist Party Congress opens in Moscow today in a situation contrasting sharply with the script prepared many months ago when this meeting was first announced . 
According to the original program , Premier Khrushchev expected the millions looking toward the Kremlin this morning to be filled with admiration or rage -- depending upon individual or national politics -- because of the `` bold program for building communism in our time '' which the Congress will adopt . 
But far from being concerned about whether or not Russia will have achieved Utopia by 1980 , the world is watching Moscow today primarily for clues as to whether or not there will be nuclear Armageddon in the immediate future . 
The evident contradiction between the rosy picture of Russia's progress painted by the Communist party's program and the enormous dangers for all humanity posed by Premier Khrushchev's Berlin policy has already led to speculation abroad that the program may be severely altered . 
Whether it is or not , the propaganda impact on the free world of the document scheduled to be adopted at this meeting will be far less than had been originally anticipated . 
And there must be many Soviet citizens who know what is going on and who realize that before they can hope to enjoy the full life promised for 1980 they and their children must first survive . 
This Congress will see Premier Khrushchev consolidating his power and laying the groundwork for an orderly succession should death or illness remove him from the scene in the next few years . 
The widespread purge that has taken place the past twelve months or so among Communist leaders in the provinces gives assurance that the party officials who will dominate the Congress , and the Central Committee it will elect , will all have passed the tightest possible Khrushchev screening , both for loyalty to him and for competence and performance on the job . 
Dr. Conant's call to action Dr. James B. Conant has earned a nationwide reputation as a moderate and unemotional school reformer . 
His earlier reports considered the American public schools basically sound and not in need of drastic change . 
Now , a close look at the schools in and around the ten largest cities , including New York , has shattered this optimism . 
Dr. Conant has come away shocked and angry . 
His new book , entitled `` Slums And Suburbs '' , calls for fast and drastic action to avert disaster . 
There is room for disagreement concerning some of Dr. Conant's specific views . 
His strong opposition to the transfer of Negro children to schools outside their own neighborhood , in the interest of integration , will be attacked by Negro leaders who have fought for , and achieved , this open or permissive enrollment . 
Dr. Conant may underestimate the psychological importance of even token equality . 
His suggestion that the prestige colleges be made the training institutions for medical , law and graduate schools will run into strong opposition from these colleges themselves -- even though what he is recommending is already taking shape as a trend . 
But these are side issues to a powerful central theme . 
That theme cuts through hypocrisies , complacency and double-talk . 
It labels the slums , especially the Negro slums , as dead-end streets for hundreds of thousands of youngsters . 
The villains of the piece are those who deny job opportunities to these youngsters , and Dr. Conant accuses employers and labor unions alike . 
The facts , he adds , are hidden from public view by squeamish objections to calling bad conditions by their right name and by insistence on token integration rather than on real improvement of the schools , regardless of the color of their students . 
A call for action `` before it is too late '' has alarming implications when it comes from a man who , in his previous reports on the schools , cautioned so strongly against extreme measures . 
These warnings must not be treated lightly . 
Dr. Conant's conscientious , selfless efforts deserve the nation's gratitude . 
He has served in positions of greater glamour , both at home and abroad ; ; but he may well be doing his greatest service with his straightforward report on the state of the public schools . 
And now -- more junk mail A fascinating letter has just reached this desk from a correspondent who likes to receive so-called junk mail . 
He was delighted to learn that the Post Office Department is now going to expand this service to deliver mail from Representatives in Congress to their constituents without the use of stamps , names , addresses or even zone numbers . 
In accordance with legislation passed at the last session of Congress , each Representative is authorized to deliver to the Post Office in bulk newsletters , speeches and other literature to be dropped in every letter box in his district . 
This means an added burden to innumerable postmen , who already are complaining of heavy loads and low pay , and it presumably means an increased postal deficit , but , our correspondent writes , think of the additional junk mail each citizen will now be privileged to receive on a regular basis . 
Our creditors do not forget us Letter writing is a dying art . 
Occasional letters are sent by individuals to one another and many are written by companies to one another , but these are mostly typewritten . 
Most mail these days consists of nothing that could truly be called a letter . 
Old , tired , trembling the woman came to the cannery . 
She had , she said , heard that the plant was closing . 
It couldn't close , she said . 
She had raised a calf , grown it beef-fat . 
She had , with her own work-weary hands , put seeds in the ground , watched them sprout , bud , blossom , and get ready to bear . 
She was ready to kill the beef , dress it out , and with vegetables from her garden was going to can soup , broth , hash , and stew against the winter . 
She had done it last year , and the year before , and the year before that , and she , and her people were dependent upon these cans for food . 
This did not happen in counties of North Georgia , where the rivers run and make rich the bottom land . 
Nor in South Georgia , where the summer sun shines warmly and gives early life to the things growing in the flat fields . 
This happened in Decatur , DeKalb County , not 10 miles from the heart of metropolitian Atlanta . 
And now , the woman , tired and trembling , came here to the DeKalb County cannery . 
`` Is it so the cannery is going to close '' ? 
O. N. Moss , 61 , tall , grey as a possum , canning plant chief since 1946 , didn't know what to say . 
He did say she could get her beef and vegetables in cans this summer . 
He did say he was out of cans , the No. 3's , but `` I requisitioned 22,000 '' . 
He said he had No. 2's enough to last two weeks more . 
Threat of closing the cannery is a recent one . 
A three-man committee has recommended to Commission Chairman Charles O. Emmerich that the DeKalb County cannery be closed . 
Reason : the cannery loses $3,000 yearly . 
But DeKalb citizens , those who use the facilities of the cannery , say the cannery is not supposed to make any money . 
`` The cannery '' , said Mrs. Lewellyn Lundeen , an active booster of the cannery since its opening during the war and rationing years of 1941 , to handle the `` victory garden '' produce , `` is a service to the taxpayer . 
And one of the best services available to the people who try to raise and can meat , to plant , grow vegetables and put them up . 
It helps those people who help themselves . 
`` The county , though , seems more interested in those people who don't even try , those who sit and draw welfare checks and line up for surplus food '' . 
A driver of a dairy truck , who begins work at 1 a.m. finishes before breakfast , then goes out and grows a garden , and who has used the cannery to save and feed a family of five , asked , `` What in the world will we do '' ? 
`` What in the world '' , echoed others , those come with the beans , potatoes , the tomatoes , `` will any of us do '' ? 
Moss , a man who knows how much the cannery helps the county , doesn't believe it will close . 
But he is in the middle , an employe of DeKalb , but on the side of the people . 
The young married people ; ; the old couples . 
The dairy truck driver ; ; the old woman with the stew . 
`` Don't ask me if I think the cannery helps '' , he said . 
`` Sir , I know the cannery helps '' . 
Most of us would be willing to admit that forgiveness comes hard . 
When a person has thoughtlessly or deliberately caused us pain or hardship it is not always easy to say , `` Just forget it '' . 
There is one thing I know ; ; a person will never have spiritual poise and inner peace as long as the heart holds a grudge . 
I know a man who held resentment against a neighbor for more than three decades . 
Several years ago I was his pastor . 
One night , at the close of the evening service , he came forward , left his resentment at the altar and gave his heart to God . 
After almost everyone had gone he told me the simple story of how one of his neighbors had moved a fence a few feet over on his land . 
`` We tried to settle this dispute '' , he said , `` but could never come to an agreement . 
I settled it tonight '' , he continued . 
`` I leave this church with a feeling that a great weight has been lifted off my heart , I have left my grudge at the altar and forgiven my neighbor '' . 
Forgiveness is the door through which a person must pass to enter the Kingdom of God . 
You cannot wear the banner of God and at the same time harbor envy , jealousy and grudges in your heart . 
Henry Van Dyke said , `` Forgive and forget if you can ; ; but forgive anyway '' . 
Jesus made three things clear about forgiveness . 
We must , first of all , be willing to forgive others before we can secure God's forgiveness . 
`` For if ye forgive men their trespasses , your heavenly Father will also forgive you : but if ye forgive not men their trespasses , neither will your Father forgive -- your trespasses '' . 
Matthew 6 : 14-15 . 
It will do no good to seek God's forgiveness until we have forgiven those who have done us wrong . 
Then , Jesus indicated that God's forgiveness is unlimited . 
In the prayer Jesus taught his disciples to pray we find these words , `` Forgive us our debts '' . 
When a person meets God's requirements for the experience of forgiveness he is forgiven . 
God's mercy and patience will last forever . 
Forgiveness implies more than a person wanting his past sins covered by God's love . 
It also implies that a man wants his future to be free from the mistakes of the past . 
We want the past forgiven , but at the same time we must be willing for God to direct the future . 
Finally , we must be willing to forgive others as many times as they sin against us . 
Once Peter asked , `` How oft shall my brother sin against me , and I forgive him ? 
Till seven times ? 
Jesus saith unto him , until seventy times seven '' . 
Matthew 18 : 21-22 . 
Jesus not only taught forgiveness , He gave us an example of it on the cross . 
With all the energy of his broken body he prayed , `` Father , forgive them , for they know not what they do '' . 
Luke 23:34 . 
She's been in and out of my house for a dozen years now , although she's still a teen-ager who looks like a baby , she is getting married . 
Her mother , now dead , was my good friend and when she came to tell us about her plans and to show off her ring I had a sobering wish to say something meaningful to her , something her mother would wish said . 
For a while there was such shrill girlish commotion I couldn't have made myself heard if I'd had the equivalent of the message to Garcia . 
But when some of the squeals had subsided and she had been through one of those sessions that are so indispensable to the young female -- six girls sprawled on one bed , drinking Cokes and giggling -- she came back to the kitchen to talk with me a minute . 
`` How do you know you love somebody enough to get married '' ? 
She asked . 
It was the oldest and toughest question young lovers have ever asked : How can you be sure ? 
`` Aren't you sure '' ? 
I asked , looking at her searchingly . 
I wanted to grab her by the arm and beg her to wait , to consider , to know for certain because life is so long and marriage is so important . 
But if she were just having a normal case of pre-nuptial jitters such a question might frighten her out of a really good marriage . 
Besides , in all honesty , I don't know how you can be sure . 
I don't know any secret recipe for certainty . 
In the fevered , intoxicating , breathless state of being in love the usual signposts that guide you to lasting and satisfying relationships are sometimes obscured . 
I knew of but one test and I threw it out to her for what it was worth . 
`` Does he ever bore you '' ? 
I asked . 
`` Bore me '' ? 
She was shocked . 
Oh , no-o ! 
Why , he's so darling and '' `` I mean '' , I went on ruthlessly , `` when he's not talking about you or himself or the wonders of love , is he interesting ? 
Does he care about things that matter to you ? 
Can you visualize being stranded with him on a desert island for years and years and still find him fascinating ? 
Because , honey , I thought silently , there are plenty of desert islands in every marriage -- long periods when you're hopelessly stranded , together . 
And if you bore each other then , heaven help you . 
She came back the other day to reassure me . 
She has studied and observed and she is convinced that her young man is going to be endlessly enchanting . 
She asked if I had other advice and , heady with success , I rushed it in , I hope not too late . 
Be friends with your mother-in-law . 
Jokes , cartoons and cynics to the contrary , mothers-in-law make good friends . 
I do not know Dr. Wilson Sneed well . 
But I was deeply moved by his letter of resignation as rector of St. Luke's Church in Atlanta . 
It was the cry of not just one heart ; ; it spoke for many in the clergy , I suspect . 
The pulpit is a lonely place . 
Who stops to think of that ? 
Imagine the searching and the prayer that lay behind the letter the rector wrote after almost a decade of service to this majestic church . 
`` Such a church needs vigor and vitality in its rector and one man has only so much of these endowments '' , he told his members . 
A minister should not stay `` beyond the time that his leadership should benefit '' his church , he wrote , `` for he becomes ordinary . 
'' And so the young minister resigned , to go and study and pray , having never passed a day , he told his parishioners , when `` I did not gain from you far more than I ever gave to you '' . 
His very honest act called up the recent talk I had with another minister , a modest Methodist , who said : `` I feel so deeply blessed by God when I can give a message of love and comfort to other men , and I would have it no other way : and it is unworthy to think of self . 
But oh , how I do sometimes need just a moment of rest , and peace , in myself '' . 
A man who gives himself to God and to the believers of his church takes upon himself a life of giving . 
He does not expect to get great riches or he would not have chosen to answer the call to preach . 
The good ones are not motivated to seek vainly , nor are they disposed to covet comfort , or they would have been led to fields that offer comfort and feed vanity . 
Theirs is a sacrificial life by earthly standards . 
Yet we who lean upon such a man and draw strength from him and expect interpretation of the infinite through him -- we who readily accept his sacrifice as our due , we of the congregations are the first to tell him what is in our minds instead of listening to what is in his soul . 
We press him to conform to our comfortable conceptions and not to bruise our satisfactions with his word , and God's . 
We do not defeat the good ones with this cruelty , but we add to their burden , while expecting them to bestow saintliness upon us in return for ostentatious church attendance and a few bucks a week , American cash . 
If we break the minister to our bit , we are buying back our own sins . 
If he won't break , we add to the stress he bears . 
And a minister of all men is most conscious that he is mere man -- prone to the stresses that earthly humanity is heir to . 
We expect him to be noble , and to make us so -- yet he knows , and tries to tell us , how very humble man must be . 
We expect bestowal of God's love through him . 
But how little love we give him . 
The church truly is not a rest home for saints , but a hospital for sinners . 
Yet every Sunday we sinners go to that emergency room to receive first aid , and we leave unmindful that the man who ministered to us is a human being who suffers , too . 
Mr. Podger always particularly enjoyed the last night of each summer at Loon Lake . 
The narrow fringe of sadness that ran around it only emphasized the pleasure . 
The evening was not always spent in the same way . 
This year , on a night cool with the front of September moving in , but with plenty of summer still about , the Podgers were holding a neighborhood gathering in the Pod . 
The little cottage was bursting with people of all ages . 
In the midst of it all , Mr. Podger came out on the Pod porch , alone . 
He had that day attended a country auction , and he had come back with a prize . 
The prize was an old-fashioned , woven cloth hammock , complete with cross-top pillow , fringed side pieces , and hooks for hanging . 
Mrs. Podger had obligingly pushed things around on the porch to make room for it , and there it was , slung in a vine-shaded corner , the night breeze rippling its fringe with a slow , caressing movement . 
Mr. Podger sat down in it , pushed himself back and forth in one or two slow , rhythmic motions , and then swung his feet up into it . 
He closed his eyes and let the unintelligible drift of voices sweep pleasantly over him . 
Suddenly one young voice rose above the others . 
`` But '' , it said , `` do you always know when you're happy '' ? 
The voice sank back into the general tangle of sound , but the question stayed in Mr. Podger's mind . 
Here , in the cool , autumn-touched evening , Mr. Podger mentally retraced a day that had left him greatly contented and at peace . 
It had begun with the blue jay feather . 
Walking along the lake before breakfast , Mr. Podger had seen the feather , and the bird that had lost it in flight . 
The winging spread of blue had gone on , calling harshly , into the wood . 
The small shaft of blue had drifted down and come to rest at his feet . 
All day long Mr. Podger , who was a straw-hat man in the summer , had worn the feather in the band of his broad-brimmed sunshield . 
Would a blue feather in a man's hat make him happy all day ? 
Hardly . 
But it was something to have seen it floating down through the early morning sunshine , linking the blue of the sky with the blue of the asters by the lake . 
Then , since the auction was being held nearby , he had walked to it . 
And there , on the way , had been the box turtle , that slow , self-contained , world-ignoring relic of pre-history , bent , for reasons best known to itself , on crossing the road . 
It was doing very well , too , having reached the center , and was pursuing its way with commendable singleness of purpose when Mr. Podger saw hazard approaching in the shape of a flashy little sports car . 
Would the driver see the turtle ? 
Would he take pains to avoid it ? 
Mr. Podger took no chances . 
Taking off his hat and signaling the driver with it , Mr. Podger stepped into the road , lifted the surprised turtle and consummated its road-crossing with what must have been a breath-taking suddenness . 
The turtle immediately withdrew into its private council room to study the phenomenon . 
But Mr. Podger and the driver of the sports car waved at each other . 
Here in the cool darkness Mr. Podger could still feel the warmth of midday , could still see the yellow butterflies dancing over the road , could still see the friendly grin on the young , sun-browned face as the driver looked back over his shoulder for a moment before the car streaked out of sight . 
Where was the driver now ? 
What was he doing ? 
And the turtle ? 
Mr. Podger smiled . 
For a few brief minutes they had all been part of one little drama . 
The three would never meet again , but for some reason or other Mr. Podger was sure he would always remember the incident . 
Then there had been the auction itself . 
Mr. Podger heard again ; ; at will , the voice of the auctioneer , the voices of the bidders , and finally the small boy who had been so interested in Mr. Podger's hammock purchase . 
`` I like them things , too '' , he had said . 
`` We got one at home . 
You know what ? 
If you're lyin' out in the hammock at night , and it gets kinda cool -- you know -- you just take these sides with the fringe on -- see -- and wrap 'em right over you . 
I do it , lots o' times -- I like to lie in a hammock at night , by myself , when it's all quiet . 
The wind moves it a little bit -- you know . 
'' Mr. Podger had thanked him gravely , and now he made use of the advice . 
As he pulled the fringed sides up and made himself into a cocoon , Mr. Podger saw that thin , attractive , freckled little face again , and hoped that the boy , too , was lying in a cool , fringed-wrapped quiet . 
Alacrity , the Podger cat , came by the hammock , rubbed her back briefly against it , and then , sure of a welcome , hopped up . 
She remarked that she found the night wind a little chilly , and Mr. Podger took her inside the fringe . 
Soon her purring rivaled the chirping of the tree crickets , rivaled the hum of voices from inside the Pod . 
Mr. Podger was just adding this to his pictures of the day when the screen door opened and Pam burst out . 
`` Dad '' ! 
She said . 
`` It's getting so chilly we've lighted a fire , and we're going to tell a round robin story -- a nice , scary one . 
We need you to start it . 
Why are you out here all by yourself ? 
Aren't you happy '' ? 
Mr. Podger opened his cocoon and emerged , tucking Alacrity under his arm to bring her in by the fire . 
`` Of course I am '' , he said . 
`` Never happier in my life . 
I just came out here to know it '' . 
Dallas As the South begins another school year , national and even world attention is directed at the region's slow progress toward racial equality in the public schools . 
Desegregation is beginning in two more important Southern cities -- Dallas and Atlanta . 
In each city civic and education leaders have been working hard to get public opinion prepared to accept the inevitability of equal treatment . 
These programs emphasize the acceptance of biracial classrooms peacefully . 
The programs do not take sides on the issue itself . 
They point out simply that `` it is the law of the land '' . 
The two cities have the examples of Little Rock and New Orleans to hold up as warnings against resorting to violence to try to stop the processes of desegregation . 
Even better , they have the examples of Nashville and Houston to hold up as peaceful and progressive programs . 
In each case there was an initial act of violence . 
In Nashville , a school was dynamited . 
In Houston , there were a few incidents of friction between whites and Negroes , none of which were serious . 
In each city quick public reaction and fast action by the city government halted the threats of more serious incidents . 
The Nashville plan , incidentally , has become recognized as perhaps the most acceptable and thus the most practical to put into effect in the troubled South . 
It is a `` stair-step '' plan , in which desegregation begins in the first grade . 
Each year another grade is added to the process , until finally all 12 grades are integrated . 
The schedules are flexible so that the program can be accelerated as the public becomes more tolerant or realizes that it is something that has to be done , `` so why not now '' . 
The program has worked well in both Nashville and Houston . 
It met a serious rebuff in New Orleans , where the two schools selected for the first moves toward integration were boycotted by white parents . 
Another attempt will be made this year in New Orleans to resume the program . 
Generally , throughout the South , there is a growing impatience with the pattern of violence with which every step of desegregation is met . 
Perhaps the most eloquent move toward removal of racial barriers has been in Dallas . 
During the summer , Negroes began quietly patronizing previously segregated restaurants and lunch counters in downtown retail establishments . 
It was part of a citywide move toward full integration . 
So successful has been this program , worked out by white and Negro civic leaders , that further extensions are expected in the next few months . 
Hotels , for example , are ready to let down the bars . 
Already , at least one hotel has been quietly taking reservations on a nonracial basis . 
Several conventions have been held in recent months in hotels on a nonsegregated basis . 
This is a radical change in attitude from the conditions which prevailed several years ago , when a series of bombings was directed against Negroes who were moving into previously all-white neighborhoods of Dallas . 
It is also symptomatic of a change in attitude which appears to be spreading all across the South . 
Southern whites themselves are realizing that they had been wrong in using violence to try to stop Negroes from claiming equal rights . 
They insist they are ashamed of such violence and intimidation as occurred in Alabama when the Freedom Riders sought to break down racial discrimination in local bus depots . 
All across the South there are signs that racial violence is finding less approval among whites who themselves would never take active part but might once have shown a tolerant attitude toward it . 
There are many causes for this change . 
One of the most important is economic . 
Business leaders are aware now that they suffer greatly from any outbreak of violence . 
They are putting strong pressure on their police departments to keep order . 
In the past these same Southerners were inclined to look the other way . 
And as the businessmen have begun to act , a real sense of co-operation has sprung up . 
This co-operation has emboldened other Southern whites to add their voices to demands for peaceable accommodation . 
They realize that by acting in concert , rather than individually , they will not be picked out as objects of retaliation -- economic and otherwise . 
Since moving from a Chicago suburb to Southern California a few months ago , I've been introduced to a new game called Lanesmanship . 
Played mostly on the freeways around Los Angeles , it goes like this : A driver cruising easily at 70 m.p.h. in Lane A of a four-lane freeway spies an incipient traffic jam ahead . 
Traffic in the next lane appears to be moving more smoothly so he pokes a tentative fender into Lane B , which is heavily populated by cars also moving at 70 m.p.h. . 
The adjacent driver in Lane B has three choices open to him . 
He can ( 1 ) point his car resolutely at the invading fender and force the other driver back into Lane A ; ; ( 2 ) slow down and permit the ambivalent driver to change lanes ; ; or ( 3 ) alternately accelerate and decelerate , thus keeping the first driver guessing as to his intentions , thereby making a fascinating sport of the whole affair . 
The really remarkable thing to me is that most California natives unhesitatingly elect to slow down and permit the invading car free access . 
Whether or not this is done out of enlightened self-preservation , I don't know . 
But it is done , consistently and I'm both surprised and impressed . 
This could never happen in my native Chicago . 
There such soggy acquiesence would be looked upon as a sure sign of deteriorating manhood . 
In Chicago , the driver cut out would likely jam his gas pedal to the floor in an effort to force the other car back . 
Failing this , he would pull alongside at the first opportunity and shake his fist threateningly . 
This negative explanation of courtesy on the freeways , however , does an injustice to Southern California drivers . 
At the risk of losing my charge-a-plate at Marshall Field and Company , I would like to challenge an old and hallowed stereotype . 
After three months of research , I can state unequivocally that Los Angeles drivers are considerably more courteous and competent than any other drivers I've ever encountered . 
During one recent day of driving about Los Angeles there were actually a dozen occasions when oncoming drivers stopped an entire lane of traffic to permit me to pull out of an impossible side street . 
Miami , Fla. , March 17 . 
An out-of-town writer came up to Paul Richards today and asked the Oriole manager if he thought his ball club would be improved this year . 
Now Richards , of course , is known as a deep thinker as baseball managers go . 
He can often make the complex ridiculously simple , and vice versa . 
This happened to be vice versa , but even so , the answer was a masterpiece . 
`` It's a whole lot easier '' , he said , `` to increase the population of Nevada , than it is to increase the population of New York city '' . 
And with that he walked off to give instruction to a rookie pitcher . 
`` That is undoubtedly a hell of a quote '' , said the writer , scratching his head . 
`` Now , if I can just figure out what he's talking about , I'll use it '' . 
Two spots open This was just Richard's way of saying that last year the Birds opened spring training with a lot of jobs wide open . 
Some brilliant rookies nailed them down , so that this spring just two spots , left and right field , are really up for grabs . 
It should be easier to plug two spots than it was to fill the wholesale lots that were open last year , but so far it hasn't worked that way . 
This angle of just where the Orioles can look for improvement this year is an interesting one . 
You'd never guess it from the way they've played so far this spring , but there remains a feeling among some around here that the Orioles still have a chance to battle for the pennant in 1961 . 
Obviously , if this club is going to move from second to first in the American League , it will have to show improvement someplace . 
